So your new meal,
it seems like it goes right.
Yup.
So it wasn't new mail.
What are we doing?
Trans Care People?
Yes.
The Joe Rogan experience podcast tonight.
Tonight.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Pasadena Ice House should be getting crazy.
We got Ian Edwards is going to be up a Duncan Trussell be there,
Brian Redman and we'll be there.
We're trying to get Brody,
so tex protein,
tell him invited and I'll give a live update.
Pleasure.
Uh,
Brody can't.
Thanks for a lot of a bitch.
I got somebody else.
Yeah,
I tried.
I tried to call Todd glass so they didn't call us back.
Maybe talk about as busy,
maybe talk glasses.
Too important for us.
They reached out of the country type glasses being hilarious.
Always hilarious.
It's fucking awesome.
It's,
we've got to get them in here.
It's an oversight.
We got to get Patton Oswald in there too of hockey.
So police harass him.
I'm dumb.
Don't really.
But yes,
do it.
Uh,
the jury of the spirits podcast.
Oh,
go to [inaudible] dot.
TV If you want to find out.
Brian's got shows coming up in Ohio,
I believe,
November 11th and sold out.
Right.
But you added sorrows.
We have November 8th in Dayton and November 10th and Columbus and there's more
shows being added and Tommy Segura is on the line up to it.
And if you never seen Tom in this,
what I said yesterday,
I really think he's one of the best comics in the country.
He's a fucking awesome guy too.
And he's just hilarious.
He's really good right now.
I mean,
he's,
he was always really good,
but he's even better now.
Last time I saw him,
it's was just fucking murdering at the Ice House.
Will be the ice house tonight.
10 o'clock,
$15 show this weekend.
Uh,
I think it's totally sold out.
Sold out.
They were begging me to get tickets for them and I'm like,
God,
what am I supposed in Minneapolis pitch?
Sorry.
We'll next place.
Next time we'll do it.
We'll just get a bigger place.
We'll be back though.
Don't sweat it.
Um,
and um,
then of course the end of the world show December 21st,
2012,
those dates of hoping that that one's on live nation and you could find it.
I'll find it on my Twitter feed somewhere.
Don't be lazy.
Just Google it.
Don't go,
don't get scalped but it's me,
honey,
honey band,
Doug,
Stan hope and Joey Diaz.
This shit is going to be epic,
Ladies and gentlemen.
All right.
Just,
just imagine that experience and if the mines are right,
we partied together,
we party together while the earth gets hit by a giant asteroid or the aliens
land or
Kim Kardashians becomes president or whatever the fuck's going to happen that's
going to make it go wrong.
Uh,
we're also brought to you by [inaudible] Dot Com oh,
I got new t shirts into the higher primates shirts are and the people keep
asking and I got some new designs that we're working on.
Two killer wants to Mike's Mike Maxwell pieces that are awesome.
More monkey related bullshit.
Ladies and gentlemen,
the higher-primate.com is the name of my tee shirt company does.
They're all,
that's all mine.
That's why it's so childish.
It's why it's monkeys and mushrooms,
but it a few aliens and there's like monkeys playing chess with aliens.
I like how your,
your,
your monkeys and aliens and I'm cats and boots.
Yeah,
we're a mess.
Whereas if we have a cartoon,
you're a monkey and I'm a cat.
Okay,
let's do it right.
Well where's the alien for them?
Uh,
that could be our guest.
The alien to us there does the overlord,
uh,
on it.com o n n I t just got in new BLENDTEC blenders.
And if you go to [inaudible] dot com forward slash blender and you pick up one
of these blenders,
you also get a free can of hemp force protein powder,
which is a amazing protein powder that we sell.
That is the best quality hand parts that you can buy.
It also has maca in it and has raw cocoa in it.
And uh,
it's the shit's not cheap,
but it's fucking delicious.
And one of the reasons why it's not cheap because our government is a fucking
mess and they don't let you grow hemp.
It's,
it's really silly hemp you can buy.
This is how it works.
You can buy hemp,
you can bring into the country you,
once you get it into the country,
you can sell it,
but you can't grow it here.
It's really an insult to the American farmer and the American entrepreneur.
Someone who would want to do that,
who would want to open up the hemp farm and grow some hemp,
which by the way is completely non-psychoactive.
There's zero in it that can get you high.
It doesn't get you high.
It's not what it is.
It's a totally different thing.
It's a textile.
It's,
it's an oil.
you know,
it's,
it's seeds that you can,
you know,
make salads with where it's very high in protein and high in amino acids.
It's like an amazing plant.
There's all sorts of great stuff you can get out of hemp,
but it's illegal because we're silly pitches.
This country is run by silly pitches,
period.
That if you don't correct that,
you're silly bitch.
It's just,
there's no getting around that.
It's the dumbest law ever because it's not even a drug law.
It's a law.
About a useful plant that's related to a drug.
It's like arresting you because your cousin's a fucking crook.
It's stupid.
It doesn't make any sense.
But,
so that's the deal with,
with hemp force.
Uh,
if you get a new BLENDTEC blender,
and I've been talking about these Kale shakes that I drink every morning and a
lot of people,
uh,
who have tried it,
have really found some great benefits from it.
The way it makes you feel,
you feel so clean,
you feel like you have all these fucking nutrients in your body.
It's like,
besides vitamins mean vitamins and supplements are important,
but what's really important is nutrient dense foods.
You know,
you're really shit,
drank a lot of water and eat green leafy vegetables and the best way to eat it
for me as these Kale shakes I have every day and I do it now with a Blendtec
blender,
it's the best one we can find.
And we sell it quite a bit cheaper than the manufacturer.
Retail as a manufacturer retails like almost $200 more than what we sell it for.
We tried to sell you the best shit possible at reasonable prices.
It's not easy to do the the kettle bells for instance.
Those are hard to sell cheap because we're sending you fucking giant metal
objects.
They're like really heavy,
but they last forever.
They're the best quality we could possibly get and we sell them in a very
reasonable rate and we,
we guarantee everything we have,
especially the supplements you,
a lot of people,
they have a,
a lot of doubts about supplements.
People think certain supplements are placebos.
I don't want anybody ever feeling ripped off.
So if you buy anything from on it,
any supplement you have 30 days or rather,
the first 30 pills that you buy,
there's 100% money back guarantee.
If you take it and you don't like it,
you say this,
you don't even have to return the product.
You just say,
this ain't,
this isn't doing anything for me.
That is a,
how convinced we are that we're selling only the best quality ingredients that
are definitely beneficial for people.
And B,
how we go into this in the spirit of not ever wanting anybody to ever feel
ripped off.
No one's trying to rip you off.
We're trying to sell you the best shit possible that I use on a daily basis,
whether it's Alpha brain,
which is a blend of cognitive enhancers that I find to be fucking awesome video
game dudes are in love with that shit.
Now I'm getting a lot of people from,
uh,
the pool playing world Max,
I believe,
started taking Alpha brain and he's letting people know about it and people have
been asking me about it.
Poker players are huge on that shit.
There's a bunch of poker players who were sponsored by,
by on it.
They're just huge believers,
uh,
cause its nutrients that enhance your brain's ability to fire correctly,
to come up with answers quick to just to,
to work and be smooth.
And it's not a drug,
it's not a speedy thing.
It's not anything that's gonna make you feel like shit when you come off of it.
It's not addictive.
It's a nutrient.
Because you know,
the other question that people have about hemp force protein powder will make me
test positive for marijuana.
No,
it will not.
But poppy seed bagels will make you test positive for heroin.
That's a fact.
That's weird,
but that's fact.
Totally unrelated.
All right.
Can you sell some kettlebells?
Get some fucking battle.
Rob's become all manly and shit and if you want to buy some supplements,
if you use a code name,
Rogan,
you will save 10% off any and all them bitches.
Okay.
All right.
Victor Conte is here.
Ladies and gentlemen,
we're going to get to the bottom of a lot of serious shit in the sports world.
Hit The music.
Brian,
the Joe Rogan experience
my day.
Joe Rogan podcast by night
never feels real to the music place and it feels like we're really doing this.
Thank you,
sir,
for coming on the podcast,
sir.
I really appreciate it.
You know,
you're a very controversial figure for people who don't know,
you're the guy who was a,
correct me if I'm wrong,
you were the head ball coach.
Is that the correct way to spell it or say it balco you were at the head of the,
uh,
Balco labs that were making these undetectable steroids and you were a hooking
athletes up and then advising them how to beat the system.
And,
uh,
how'd you,
how'd you get involved in that?
You know,
my life mantra Joe is,
is if it's not fun,
I don't do it.
It was fun.
So I was having fun.
Right.
It was a,
the challenge of being in the trenches and,
uh,
you know,
being involved in a number of projects and a number of sports and going after
those historic records.
Was it a fun,
because you were sorta cheating the system?
Like,
was that part of the fun of it?
They were being naughty?
You know,
it was more about,
uh,
previous to that I had developed a product called Zma that had made a
significant amount of money.
And I think like anyone else that,
um,
got to a point where they didn't have to worry about paying the mortgage and so
on,
I,
uh,
decided what is it that I really liked to do?
And that was,
uh,
being in the trenches and help athletes and,
and,
uh,
try to do historic thing.
So whether it be go to the Superbowl with teams or go to world championships or
Olympics or whatever it was a,
we would set specific goals like the Tim Montgomery project called project world
record.
We set out,
um,
I recruited and hired a bunch of people,
including Ben Johnson's,
coach,
Charlie Francis,
to uh,
to create the world's fastest human is one of the projects that we had.
And we did end up eventually doing that piece is Christ.
So you looked at it as sort of a science project sort of a thing.
The challenge and the fun and excitement a lot of people thought because it was
an IRS led investigation that it was all about the money at absolutely the
farthest thing from the truth.
Uh,
ultimately I pled to probably many consider the smallest money laundering case
and the history of the United States in an amount of $100.
And how long they put you in jail for that.
I spent four months in a minimum security prison camp,
uh,
where they were smoking weed and,
and uh,
no.
Oh yeah.
The,
the,
this uh,
talk about,
uh,
made me Syrians disen rat on them cause then they'll,
they'll tighten down with people that are in there right now.
Well,
I told you earlier before you started that,
uh,
one of your friends that you had on your show,
Tommy Chong,
he's already ratted on him.
In fact,
he ratted on him,
on the Dave Letterman show when I was in.
Oh,
did he really?
Damn,
man,
you got to keep that quiet.
If it's an easy jail,
you know,
you don't want to fuck it up for people.
There's a lot of angry republicans out there.
They're like,
wait,
it's fucking painful.
They're supposed to bring your jail.
It's supposed to be grand punished.
How do we keep our kids safe?
It was a sports complex.
Was it really?
So you just worked out and hung out and slow,
you know,
to make a long story short,
the first morning when I woke up and I,
it was kind of a university campus like setting and I walked out and in the
middle of the courtyard,
it was a huge sign and it said,
Sports Complex,
uh,
basketball,
football,
baseball,
soccer,
botchy ball,
volleyball,
handball.
Wow.
And I looked,
uh,
you know,
around and I,
there was about 500 guys there and they all had all sorts of equipment,
you know,
somewhere there was a soccer game and a and a baseball game and all going on.
And then,
uh,
I looked over and I saw the,
the rec center and I walked over to that and walked in and there were six pool
tables and foosball tables,
ping pong tables.
And then I went through this door and it was this huge music department.
Three different musical groups were,
were practicing and,
and I said,
well,
do they have concerts here?
Oh yeah,
we have a routine on Friday nights.
We have the bands playing,
we have concerts outside.
That's
sounds awesome.
This is my first,
you know,
10 minutes out on the,
uh,
on the compound.
I started walking around with some guys around the,
uh,
the walking track and I went,
I said,
are they smoking weed here?
yeah,
what's some weak?
Can't go fuck.
I said,
I listen,
I don't want anything to do with this kind of stuff.
I don't know.
You don't get in any,
any more trouble.
And I'm already in.
Did they,
do they test people?
How could you smoke weed if the,
I mean,
don't they test them?
Well,
first of all,
there's no fences around the place.
Right.
Every 200 feet,
they have a,
a sign on a steak that says out of bounds.
I got there in December 1st of 2005,
uh,
that Christmas,
about 25 guys just walked up to the freeway and have their,
the road and,
and have their families pick them up and they left.
Wow.
So it was kind of an honor system,
but yeah.
Anything that you wanted a alcohol,
any and every type you wanted was $20 for eight ounces.
They had math,
they had steroids.
I,
if I,
you know,
I didn't take me long to figure out that they had several really nice looking
female correction officers there,
you know,
hair done up and you know,
big chest and it was kind of stunning to me in the guy said,
listen,
do you want some action?
Wait a minute,
that's awesome.
Telling me the straight scoop.
The female corrections officers were also hookers.
My understanding is on average they were making 30,000 a month.
You're going to jail.
You want me to do to try and go to jail or
do the fat baggy coats that hate their wives.
It's like gimme near a pool table and it's fucking play basketball with the
boys.
Let's all get arrested together please.
I swear to God,
I swear to God the guy and that they have cubes.
It's a 12 by 12 concrete block that is six feet high,
not cells.
They just have an open door.
And this young kid came in that same first day that I was there and my a QB was
a guy named eval was his name and he said Eva and I have to do something bad
cause cause I'm scheduled to go home tomorrow.
I said your skin has to go home and you,
you want to stay here?
He said,
yeah,
if I go home I got to start paying rent.
Oh Wow.
Well that really does happen and people write to become really
institutionalized.
There's these people that they go to jail for a long time when they become like
almost programmed to have a real hard time adjusting.
Well the,
the,
the amazing part of the story is is that the federal taxpayers were paying
$100,000 a day for me to be in there.
100,000 for you just yeah,
you,
ABC Nightline news.
Martin Bashir announced that night that I went in there,
they had a special and he said that they had spent investigating and prosecuting
me.
Of course I was the first one in,
they'd spent 12 point $7 million.
So divide that by 120 days.
It's 100 grand.
Yeah.
It gets really weird when it gets to these a performance enhancing drug trials,
like they go way out of bounds.
It's,
it's really interesting how we just sort of accept that,
you know,
uh,
like we,
we this,
these congressional hearings that they have for perjury about fucking steroids
in baseball.
Like really?
Is that what we're using congress four in the middle of two wars,
we're going to make sure that some guy wasn't on growth.
You know,
like what the fuck is wrong with people?
It's really strange that they concentrate on it so much,
you know,
and then they make it this massive deal.
It's certainly a debatable issue.
There's no question about it.
But the,
the prevalence of all sorts of different things that are enhancing performance
available at every single vitamin store all over the country.
They're there all the time.
And those are legal.
So because they're legal,
you say,
well that's okay.
Well their performance enhancing drugs,
okay,
these are,
these are compounds,
molecules,
these are different.
There's a bunch of different things he could buy at GNC and then we'll fucking
help you recover faster.
They will help you get stronger.
They will give you more testosterone.
They just will.
They will.
These are legal.
They exist.
So the weirdness of deciding that,
you know,
Roger Clemens shouldn't be taking growth and if he is taken growth,
he should tell the truth about it.
And if he doesn't tell the truth about it,
we're going to drag you in front of fucking Congress.
Like,
Whoa,
you guys took it too far.
He's a fucking baseball player.
He's a baseball player.
You're mad that he didn't tell the truth about a,
about a hormone that that makes him better at age 40.
Come on man,
what the fuck are we wasting our money on?
This is ridiculous.
It doesn't make any sense that they would spend so much money doing that.
Did you start off using steroids with athletes or did you slowly work into it?
I was a musician for many years.
I played the bass with um,
a group called tower power and also thereafter with the jazz pianist,
Herbie Hancock.
And I made 17 different cds that were in the store are still available and,
and uh,
I was looking for a way to get off the road and into,
in 1983 I was 33 at the time and uh,
my cousin's roommate was a guy that had bought this,
it's called an ICP is the acronym inductively coupled plasma atomic emissions
spectrometer.
I see.
Get Tower power plan there.
You can just call it as the same picket that I was in the bandwidth.
There's my cousin Bruce who was you guys.
He's the,
uh,
can we that Lenny is the um,
well let's,
in fact Lenny Williams just sang the national anthem with the giants came last
night and forgot the words.
Where are you in this?
Let me say this.
May or may not have been the period ramen.
The band,
I can't tell these are all the same guys,
but this may have been a bit before I joined the band.
I don't see unknots Rocco is playing here.
The original bass player.
I,
this is the guy that I replaced.
That's a huge band.
10.
There were 10 guys.
Do you guys want us to tore it up on the road?
Had a lot of fun.
I bet you did.
I had a lot of fun.
So you went from that,
how do you go from that to,
so I was looking them for a way to make money and uh,
this guy,
Jack Cameron,
uh,
that had graduated with my cousin from UFC had started a lab in Santa Barbara
and he bought this piece of equipment that could analyze,
uh,
any sort of biological fluid,
tissue,
blood,
urine,
uh,
but they mainly use these pieces of equipment.
His actual contract that he had at the time was with Hughes aircraft and they
would drain the oil from the engines on a jet and analyze,
um,
the oil for the concentration of metals so they would know when to replace the
engine parts.
And,
but he also knew that there was an application of this,
uh,
in terms of,
medical and specifically sport application.
And he knew that I was a track athlete and in,
um,
in high school and college and he said,
I've got an idea.
And he,
he pitched this to me.
I went down to Santa Barbara where the equipment was at that time.
And long story short,
I couldn't even pronounce the name of the instrument.
I said,
sure,
it sounds like a good idea to me.
Um,
I could buy it for $25.
I mean,
excuse me,
$10 and analysis and sell it for $25 and analysis.
So I was in business.
He flew up to the bay area and,
and hooked me up with a few medical doctors and they started using the service.
And you had no background.
I had no background whatsoever whatsoever.
And uh,
but you know,
I always had people have called it Victor's knack and,
and so I founded back on March of 1984.
Well,
immediately I started,
you know,
hooking up with world class athletes.
The first one was Alberto Salazar who was the world record holder in the
marathon at the time.
They'd won the New York City Marathon two or three times.
And shortly after,
it was Matt Biondi,
who at that time was the world's fastest swimmer who wants seven or eight gold
medals in the Olympics in 1988 and it just continue.
The next thing you know,
I had the professional football players and,
and uh,
so I started building this database and I just kind of learned as I went along.
And,
and,
uh,
eventually I did learn how to,
to run an operate the equipment and we became fully,
um,
medicare certified and licensed and,
and,
uh,
so,
so what exactly were you doing for these athletes from nicely while we were
analyzing a ma,
we called it multiple compartment,
multi element analysis.
So we would look at,
at up to 40 different elements,
predominantly minerals and trace elements,
and we'd centrifuge the blood separated into the fluid portion,
the plasma or serum and the pack cells or red blood cells.
We looked at whole blood,
we looked at urine.
So we calculate their retention,
excretion and,
and all these ratios.
And then I would develop individualized nutrition programs for the athletes in a
short period of time.
Um,
I had,
they'll Roman our ski,
uh,
showed up at Palcos door.
It was when he left the 40 niners in 95 and then he went to Philadelphia for a
year and had a great season.
Even one game.
He had 24 tackles in a game following year.
He became the leader of the Denver Broncos.
I talked with our Arthur's a porn who was the team physician of the Broncos.
He probably still is today,
but he,
but he was then went to training camp,
a tested every one of the players,
a blood and urine samples and created an individual nutrition program for all 85
guys and training camp.
Long story short,
they not only won the Superbowl that year,
but they won the Superbowl the following year.
It just kind of right time,
right place,
right ideas.
Uh,
so this kind of created a lot of attention regarding what I was doing.
And previous to that though,
I had,
um,
went to the Olympics in 1988 and I'd worked with a 25 athletes,
judo athletes,
track athletes,
uh,
and Matt Biondi the swimmer.
Long story short of those 25 athletes that I helped,
they brought back a total of 15 metals with a whole United States team,
brought back 97 so 20% of the metals that came back were people that I had been
helping.
Well,
so I says,
oh,
this was all the gent has this.
This was from 84 through 2000 this is just a mineral vitamins.
It was all legit.
Now did I know that some of these guys,
as an example,
in 88 I worked with all the shot putters,
hammer throwers,
discus throwers.
Well of course you,
the guys were all doing stuff.
You know,
I knew that they were doing stuff,
but I wasn't involved directly in that.
So you were just brought in as the the analyst.
The nutritionist is what I did.
I provided nutritional supplements based on,
on the comprehensive blood and urine test.
How were those guys?
How did they pass tests?
Do they have it timed?
Is that what they were doing?
Of course they would just take her off and pass and here's where the big turn
occurred after the 88 Olympics.
And I dunno if you've recently watched this 9.79 asterik program that has been
on ESPN,
the 30,
30 about Ben Johnson.
No,
I haven't seen that.
It's a,
it's a very interesting documentary and I was there in [inaudible] 88 standing
at the finish line when he ran nine 79.
And all of this came down and long story short,
all these eight guys,
one at a time,
you know,
since then have either been busted or admitted that they were using performance
enhancing drugs.
Of course he was not,
he was not the only one but very interesting program.
And,
and uh,
thereafter,
um,
four years later in 1992,
uh,
at the track and field trials in New Orleans,
I had befriended this Olympic official and I was working,
uh,
with one of the same shot putters Greg for,
who in 1992 at the farthest thrown in the world at 72,
one and a half.
And at these trials he tested positive.
So this guy,
which we won't name,
but he lives here in southern California,
he was an Olympic official.
He's no longer involved with track and field,
but,
but at that time he was,
and he said,
call me and said,
your boy tested positive.
He said,
you're kidding.
So I,
I called Greg,
told him,
he told his wife,
Mary,
you know,
this was what he was going to do.
Now he's going to have to look for a job.
I mean,
he was,
this was quite upsetting to him.
And then three or four days later,
I get a call back from the same guy.
And he said,
well,
one of the oldest states when at TAC,
it used to be called the athletic congress.
Now it's USACF,
TF,
United States track and field.
And he said,
uh,
one of the elder states when passed away,
and,
uh,
they had a reception afterwards and some of these big dogs within the
organization got together and decided that it was time to sweep these five
positive drug tests that,
uh,
that they came up with under the rug.
So tell your boys off the hook.
Wow.
So once I had firsthand knowledge of this,
that you know,
and I also knew that there were other positive drug tests that were covered up
and in 1988 and soul.
So this weighed on me for a while.
Uh,
and it wasn't until 2000 when when I was at,
uh,
Mister Olympia bodybuilding contest in Las Vegas.
And the guy that made the original stock of the clear that was involved in Balco
Patrick Arnold,
he's going,
hey,
I've got some stuff.
He called his stuff and he said,
I,
you know,
I don't think it will cause a positive test.
It,
it,
he wouldn't know for sure.
He said,
well,
may,
you know,
it seems to enhance recovery,
et Cetera,
et cetera.
So I bought some of this stuff from him for about $150,
I think.
Did you ask him like how it works?
You know,
I still didn't,
now I can tell you exactly what it was.
It was something called nor bowl-a-thon,
which is an anabolic steroid that was developed in the 1960s.
Uh,
there were liver toxicity issues about it and they never brought it to market.
So he saw this in the Merck index and you know,
made this stuff.
And so the bottom line is that,
uh,
I gave,
I took some myself for four consecutive days in a row and I was trying to,
it was a suppression test.
I was trying to determine,
you know,
does it have an affinity for the androgen receptor?
And each and every day my own endogenous production of testosterone went down to
zero.
After four days I realized that it does have an affinity for the receptor is
anabolic.
It's very potent.
So the first thing I did was diluted by 50% and change the frequency in dosage
schedule compared to what he was using.
But,
uh,
shortly thereafter,
you know,
with,
with this reduced dosage,
I started giving it to,
to various athletes and I also had it tested and it came back clean.
So it was undetectable.
So it was undetectable because people just didn't know what it was.
No,
because they,
what they have is a,
first of all,
all the rules changed when,
when Balco and the balco case,
we're talking pre balco.
Okay.
They have a list of about a 30 to 35 anabolic steroids.
And for each one of those,
they have what's called a mass spectrogram fragmentation pattern.
It's like a,
it's like a thumbprint,
so they can measure all these peaks and it either matches or doesn't.
So they're looking for specific things,
specific,
a pattern of a specific anabolic steroid.
So if you've got one that's not,
doesn't have the fingerprint,
there is no match,
well then they can't see it,
so to speak.
Wow.
So however,
that's all changed now.
Now they,
they,
uh,
if you want me to explain that,
I can explain to you why,
what's the difference?
They changed all the laws.
Bucko changed everything.
Um,
he used to be two tiers of the first is that,
um,
uh,
for an anabolic steroid is that it's similar in structure to testosterone,
all anabolic steroids or modified or,
or derivatives of testosterone.
Okay.
The second prong was that there had to be some sort of scientific evidence
proving that it created the protein synthesis,
that it,
that it promoted muscle growth.
Well,
in this case there was,
there was science to promoted this.
They just couldn't see it.
Now they've removed that second prong.
So even if they don't at the time,
you know,
I'm the one that made up the name the clear later they said,
well,
you know,
have you this t h g,
did you,
what about thcs?
So what's that?
A Tetra Hydro gesture known,
never heard of it.
I didn't know what they were even talking about.
And this is what the chemists through reverse engineering we're able to do to
figure out,
you know,
what that was,
but understand that was two versions of the clear.
The first was the snore Bola phone.
And then I had access to all kinds of inside information within the Olympic
testing network.
And what I mean by that is let's talk about where they do the testing now for
Usada,
for Vata,
for everybody at the Ucla Olympic Analytical Laboratory near Los Angeles,
uh,
Ucla by the campus.
Um,
there was a guy that,
that actually,
he was the assistant to Don Catlin was there for 15 years and he left.
And I knew somebody that knew him.
And long story short,
I ended up hiring him.
So I had,
you know,
obviously he knew people in the lab.
Uh,
he actually told me that this original species of the clear on nor bola phone
that he personally had went to rifle laboratories in 1982 when they built the
lab.
Uh,
and the purpose was for the 1984 Olympic Games in Los Angeles.
And he went to Don Catlin and said,
you need to create a test for this substance.
It's in this merch index.
Guys could get this,
they could make this,
it could be everywhere and you wouldn't know it.
So he brought it to his attention in his own words.
He said,
well they,
you know,
Don Catlin kind of told me to blow it out my ass and he,
they just ignored him.
Well,
exactly what he predicted happened.
And that's in about 1997 Patrick saw this,
he made this,
it got out there,
he gave some to me.
So I gave it to all these Olympic athletes.
But an interesting aspect of this story,
and this has been out there before,
but I,
I don't know that many within the world of MMA know this,
but Patrick made like a gallon of this stuff.
We only needed a couple of drops.
How did you do?
What did it work?
I mean it was a very powerful anabolic steroid,
but it's sublingual Trump an eyedropper and you'd put a couple of drops under
your tongue.
Now here's what I was told.
I don't want to create more,
you know,
multimillion dollar lawsuits against me.
But here's the story that I was told.
He sold a whole bunch of this stuff,
like a gallon to Bob Sapp,
one fighter.
And my understanding is this stuff was all over the NFL.
It was,
I,
I guess that during this time you'd bid was out of the NFL and I think there was
a period of time when he played in the Canadian league before he went to Japan,
uh,
to do the k one fighting.
But the point is this stuff was very widely distributed,
is my understanding.
Bob Sapp got to a level that was like,
well,
I couldn't even say cartoonish because it was more like a CGI who was like,
he was like,
he was the first guy ever that could have played the incredible hulk.
Like he really could have played the hulk because he was that big.
I mean like Lou Ferrigno and when he played the hulk,
he's like a bodybuilder.
I mean,
he was very well built,
who's was obviously very muscular,
but he wasn't ridiculous.
There's something about Bob Sapp when he was 370 pounds with a six pack.
That was just,
it was just ridiculous.
He probably didn't know there was a connection between balco and Bob Sapp.
No,
no,
no.
He bought a and that stuff.
Just think about how much of I said No.
All you had to do,
I mean that pull up a picture of him,
Brian pull up a picture of SAP versus Nogueira look in Google images,
Bob Sapp versus no gear.
The photos are so ridiculous,
you can't even believe he's a real human.
So anyway,
I,
because I had a lot of uh,
I suppose to care,
I had a lot of contacts,
you know,
within within the Olympic testing facilities and so on that the,
they found some quote peculiar metabolites in the urine of Marion Jones and
other athletes.
So they started asking athletes,
the actual testers that go out to these athletes,
um,
you know,
training facilities and without naming names,
but a guy that was on the team in 2000 that the,
I think he got fourth in the discus from,
from the u s he didn't get a medal,
but there you go.
The size of him,
the video of in the beginning pulled to do the very beginning of the match
because when he's about to what they're both about the fight,
like even before,
like when they're in their stand in the center of the ring and the referee says,
go,
you see him?
Oh this is the second round.
He's already tired.
Look at the fucking size of him.
Oh my God,
that guy was big.
I'm sorry.
So continue.
So
I get a call from,
from a guy that I'm working with a shot putter who's friends with this.
It was on the Olympic team with its discus thrower and he said,
hey,
they're asking questions.
What do we know about this balco laboratories?
You know,
is there any connection?
And here's what we're trying to figure out.
What is this stuff?
And so the bottom line is we just switched over and had,
so there was another undetectable that was ready to go.
So we just carried that one and brought the second generation out.
Damn.
He didn't even slow down,
didn't even slow down.
And you just think you were,
did you think that the whole,
because of you knowing that the Olympic Committee had fudge some tests,
did you just think the whole thing was bullshit and then you're going to get
through it?
I did.
I subconsciously,
I had this,
um,
yeah.
I mean,
my plan didn't work out.
It was because I knew this guy that told me all this on the inside was a very
credible,
uh,
you know,
guys,
a Japanese follow that really had a high level of integrity.
He left the whole Olympic track and field movement.
He,
he worked there after with many famous,
uh,
tennis players,
Wimbledon champions and a whole list of,
I worked with a lot of different Mike Michael Chang,
uh,
Yvonne Lendl,
a Greg Reduced Ski Sharapova,
uh,
many,
many great.
Uh,
he was a trainer and uh,
I,
my thought was if they come after me,
my,
my get out of jail ticket,
so to speak would be,
we'll just subpoena this guy and he can tell what he knows about what
everybody's doing.
And then I realized that,
that,
you know,
if there was a,
if he was subpoenaed and he was under oath,
that would be one thing.
If there was a congressional committee hearing that would be another,
but I'm not just going to send reporters to his house and destroy this guy's
life.
And,
uh,
it became better in the case,
of Balco for me to,
um,
do this global plea bargain.
And the way that all came down was because I knew that they had lied on in many
of the memorandums and it was all sorts of bad stuff that the government had
done.
And I learned about this and used it in terms of leverage.
And literally the way the Balco case ended is I dictated all the terms and
conditions of,
of what I would get and,
and,
um,
was able to do so for the other guys like Barry Bonds,
his trainer,
Greg Anderson and Jim Valenti and Remy court chimney.
And honest to God,
I had seen Martha Stewart,
uh,
she kind of went in over a holiday period,
was in there five months and I thought,
you know what,
to be away from my business and do what I needed to do.
If I can plan this right,
I'll just accept foreign for four months in a minimum security prison and four
months of ankle bracelet and a,
that way I can continue.
The VP of Balco got straight probation,
so he was able to continue to run my business.
I was able to continue to have my income at the same level and this protected
everybody from having to come forward and testify in a trial.
So I what led you to start giving them illegal substances or substances?
Either you knew what cheating.
Well,
you have to understand in the beginning it started with the clear,
I didn't consider it to be an illegal substance because when the guy said he had
this stuff,
you didn't think it was illegal.
Well,
I didn't really know what it was.
I,
this guy also introduced a,
a pro hormones.
If you remember when Mark Mcgwire,
they found the sports illustrated writer,
Steven Wilson had found it in his locker and everything broke about Andrew
Stanton island.
This is the guy that introduced and to the United States market.
So I wasn't sure what it was.
I mean literally there were three different species and later I saw when they
tried to smuggle this through customs in Canada.
But what I'd seen all the bottles and the first one said nor stuff the second
one sentence,
give it the trend stuff and the third one says new stuff.
And so you've just given us the people,
you know,
did I give the kit?
Then I did testing and then you got to understand that all these athletes that
work with me routinely,
they were on a very short leash,
meaning they got a three week on,
one week off cycle,
and if they didn't come back and have their blood tested so we could monitor
liver function,
kidney function,
cluster,
all fractions and all the rest,
that that was the end of the supply.
So in my mind I was helping them do what in almost every case they were already
doing themselves only they were buying it out of trunks of cars in dark alleys
behind gyms.
I owned a fully licensed clinical laboratory where we could do all these testing
and,
and then they would have the opportunity to make more informed decisions and in
most cases they use much lower dosages,
which were equally,
if not more effective at a certain point in time when you were initially working
with people and just giving them nutrition and then realizing that some of them
were doing steroids.
Did you just that it's an inevitability,
it's just a part of a sports period.
High Level Sports.
Yeah.
Like I say,
once I gathered this information that everybody's in on it,
meaning the Olympic officials are actually covering up positive drug tests at an
Olympic Games.
Um,
I had been on the sideline from 92 and for eight years and,
and just at a certain point I made that decision to go down that slippery slope
and I was at the right decision.
Obviously not in many respects.
You say you didn't know what it was and you didn't think it was illegal,
but as soon as they were looking for you changed it.
Wow.
You knew that there was something that was probably unkosher about it.
Well,
and then once I had,
this was a rationalization in my mind,
right?
Helping people do things that you know more safely.
I mean,
but it's,
part of it was wrong.
I was all wrong.
So let,
let me,
let me say that because thereafter,
once you cross that line,
then we started using all sorts of other things,
EPO,
growth,
hormone,
thyroid,
you know,
uh,
all sorts of stimulants that were undetectable.
Uh,
you know,
there was seven or eight or nine different drugs that,
that,
uh,
these athletes were using.
Oh,
I see.
So it was sort of a,
once it started,
the snowball started rolling and then you just started collecting,
collecting drug that you're doing.
You know,
it's the,
everything that works in the beginning when I tell you that I hired Charlie
Francis and he came down for this project.
And if you've ever listened to any of the things that you've said,
I'm not saying it's right,
but it's the use or lose mentality,
right?
You know,
the other guys doing it,
you feel you got to do what you gotta do in order to be competitive.
And you know,
I don't know that I agree with this now and I've said this myself before that,
you know,
it's not cheating if everyone's doing it where it probably is because everyone,
it's a level playing field.
It's just not the one everyone thought it was.
Right.
And is that what's going on right now in professional sports?
You know,
it's,
um,
is it possible to have athletes that you see today in professional sports
without performance enhancing drugs?
Isn't it,
is it possible just through,
you know,
the natural selection of big athletic people dating big athletic people and
making big athletic kids question.
There are athletes that have broke world records and won Olympic gold medals on
the nat naturally.
Absolutely.
That can happen,
but those are freaks.
They're genetic freaks and there's not diminish them.
There's not that many of them.
And then there's guys like Armstrong's that might be a freak
and it looks like it was doing something like,
then they say Armstrong,
Lance Armstrong has an abnormally large heart and they're like,
he processes blood better than the average person does just naturally and
genetically.
Yeah.
But it's like you saying bolt and he's got all these gifts.
But you know,
my,
I'm highly suspicious that not only he's on drugs,
but most of the track athletes that are on the Jamaican island or on drugs.
What are they on?
If you had to guess,
if I had to guess seven or eight different drugs.
Um,
my sense is that,
um,
well let me back up and put this in perspective.
If you heard the name memo Heredia no memo.
A memo is this nickname.
It's actually Angel Heredia in the Balco case.
This is the guy,
there were two people that were at the very top of the food chain.
Angel was one of them.
He was a discus thrower from,
uh,
from Texas a and,
m.
And he was the supplier for Trevor Graham and Marion Jones and Tim Montgomery in
the sprint capitol group that was in Raleigh,
North Carolina,
that,
uh,
won a whole bunch of Olympic gold medals and so on.
They ended up indicting Trevor Marion's coach,
uh,
for lying to a federal agent.
This guy came and testified against,
uh,
Trevor and he got leniency in exchange for that.
So he never got any consequences whatsoever.
He was the guy making all the money,
was at the top of the food chain.
He was the main dealer.
Well,
he's now works with one mil.
Manwell Marquez.
Who's fighting Manny Pacquiao next.
Yeah,
I saw that.
I saw that people were very suspicious.
He changed his name.
If you remember,
all of a sudden,
I'm the one that saw him on Hbo,
24,
seven.
I said,
oh my God,
that's memo.
And,
and he,
his real name is Heredia and all of a sudden it was Angel Hernandez.
So he changed his name and thought nobody would recognize him.
And of course,
and so the,
the word is,
and the stream under the bus is that he's working with the Jamaican athletes.
He,
he's uh,
he's said as much in,
in UK interviews.
And I know somebody who saw him after Usain bolt ran a nine 69 and did
everything they did in,
in Beijing at the Olympics,
at the world championships the following year.
So
point is,
is it possible that this guy is just doing it legally now?
And that's why no one another,
because people are testing positive one memoir Marquez.
No.
Impossible.
No,
because they don't have any testing.
What testing is Juan Manwell mark has doing?
Well,
I don't know.
I mean it's,
it didn't he get tested in Vegas?
Well,
that's about tapering off and just,
you know,
you have to be dumb.
That's Iq testing.
That's not drug testing.
I see.
So,
um,
these but these Olympic athletes
tested,
correct?
Well,
even that's relatively easy to circumvent.
How's that?
Well,
let's just,
okay.
You want me to explain exactly how you can,
sure.
Let's pretend I'm Hussein both data.
I'm fucking awesome.
Just when the Olympics,
what are you going to do now?
Here's the fun,
here's the way it works.
And this is the big loophole.
You get to miss tests in any given 18 month period as an Olympic athlete.
So it was just like getting a speeding ticket on your driving record.
So here you are low,
you have a whereabouts form,
you fill it out and you say,
I'm going to be at training center x and you don't go there.
You go to training center.
Why?
Well,
the odds are I've calculated about 25 to one that they're not going to go to
that training center.
But even if they do,
the worst scenario is it's like being up to bat and American baseball game
strike one.
Does that mean you're out?
They don't disclose that.
Nobody gets told that.
So if you go and you win the Olympics and you test positive for steroids,
it's just a strike.
They just burn.
I don't use positive,
I'm s I'm talking about a missed test.
Miss test this task like you were supposed to take it but you didn't show up.
You didn't show up.
Okay,
so that's strike one.
that's true.
That's the downside.
Okay.
First of all,
there's no transparency,
so nobody knows.
So you missed the test.
We still have to test that strike one.
Well,
no,
they don't come right back the next day.
What they do is the,
they say they sent you a letter and say,
Hey,
you missed this test.
Show up at this hearing and,
and you can give us a reasonable explanation or present exceptional
circumstances are,
you can argue this or you get the strike.
This is for the Olympics.
You feel at this.
Okay,
then,
okay,
so you're,
you're six months out from the Olympics.
You do this two or three times.
Maybe they come one time to get one strike.
Then they,
you do it again and they come and they're really targeting you now.
So they come back a second time and you're not there and it's striked too,
right?
You go to the Olympics,
you win the gold medal,
you cash in and you get all the endorsement money.
Well,
the time is rolling.
How much,
how many days could it possibly be?
Well,
the whole period of time you're not,
you can't have three tests in any given 18 month period.
You can have to,
otherwise they suspend your license.
Or once you've got to Ms Tests,
you cannot take any more chances in terms of using drugs until the oldest miss
test falls off your record.
Just like a ticket on your driving record.
Makes Sense.
So when you know that you're positive,
you just miss your tests,
you just,
yeah.
You make yourself unavailable.
Jesus crafts.
What happened with Marian?
No.
What's her name?
Uh,
the tennis player.
What are the girls names?
The big ones.
The will,
the way the Williams and the other one.
One of them,
they came to her house for a random drug test.
So she went in her panic room and called the police.
What?
She thought she didn't give a sample.
Awesome.
So let's,
Oh fuck.
So here's the bottom line.
What happened?
Is there any consequence?
I don't know.
She got a miss test it.
Nobody ever knew about it.
But basically that's,
that is a tennis thing.
I've never heard of that before.
Have you ever heard about this?
That's why they have what they call a whereabouts form.
You have to fill these forms out.
You can communicate by email,
text message,
let them know where you are and if they decide to show up,
but let's put it in perspective.
They on average,
they test about twice a year out of competition,
meaning they show up and you know unexpected.
Now let's not count the Times that they test you at a competition.
You know,
let's talk about baseball for a minute.
They test these players
twice a year.
The first test is at training camp.
That's announced testing.
That's Iq testing.
How dumb do you have to be to be caught?
Then you just know that the taper times a certain amount,
you go off,
he show up,
you get your test.
Well,
if they're not targeting you and they have no reason to target at target,
you then here's what the guys say,
okay,
it's April 1st.
By the first week of May I get my second test,
green light.
She is all the stuff we like is,
we already had a second test.
So you for one month you played baseball until you have your mandatory second
test.
It could be a month and you just choose to the walls.
Let's look at the statistics here.
Here,
here,
most of them
gains for four Olympic athletes and for Ma NFL and major league baseball and
professional sports during the off season,
they load up on all kinds of performance enhancing drugs,
including anabolic steroids and do intensive weight training for four or five
months.
And the gains they make,
what kind of gains can you make?
Tiny Tim,
Tim Montgomery that,
that broke the world record.
Uh,
the,
with the project world record that I talked about earlier,
he,
in eight weeks he came anyway at one 48 he put on 28 pounds of muscle in eight
weeks.
It's bench press went from two 40 to 65 to three 45 and eight weeks.
So a lot can be done in four or five months using powerful drugs.
Those gains carry over.
So when when these athletes are doing all these spectacular things at the
Olympic Games,
it's not because they're using the drugs at the Olympics or just before the
Olympics.
They've used them for five months during the off season.
What if we had an all roid Olympics?
Would it be much different?
While the surveys show that that's what people really want
to,
they really,
yeah.
You can see that survey that was getting surveyed who is getting served.
That's all surveys suck.
Those every fucking,
every poll that's ever existed sucks.
Your here was this survey
be and it was before the 2004 Olympic Games and aphids and the question they ask
and it was a sports illustrated,
they said,
would you rather see a new world record of 9.65 which would even be the record
now by a guy that you knew was used to the gills or see a guy run 10 20 knowing
he's completely clean.
70% said gimme the world record.
Wow,
that's weird.
I'd rather see a guy jumped like a mile up in the air then you know the seven
feet.
Yeah.
Like,
if there was a pill that you can take the actually turned you into the hulk and
you could literally jump a mile into the air like the hulk could,
who wouldn't take that?
You need crazy not to take that.
And you don't want to be the hub.
Really?
What's wrong with you?
It's not meaning it have to smash everything,
but just knowing you could jump to a fucking,
you know,
the airplane,
I would give that pill that David Lee Roth and immediately you're bulletproof
and you can jump up to airplanes.
You don't want to do that.
Okay?
It's fuck is wrong with you,
becomes what the fuck is wrong with you.
Um,
at any point in time while you're doing this and you're caught up,
you know,
you're going from being totally natural to work with a clear to all of the
sudden you'd give guys EPO and growth and all this different stuff.
Does any point in time go,
man,
this is not what I set up to do.
I just wanted to be in the hunt.
I did,
didn't know the hunt.
It wasn't like he didn't know the hunt was dirty until he got in it.
And then once you run it and like,
well this is how you do business,
you get that shirt.
I knew that it was dirty.
It was the,
you know,
that rationale and I told you that I used before of you,
you feel that you've got to do which you,
you need to do in order to be competitive and it's the user lose.
If you don't use drugs then,
except for this rare freak that you mentioned that,
that can do this without the use of drugs.
Why?
No,
there's a lot of MMA fighters that don't use drugs.
They won't use drugs and they don't use drugs to maybe a small handful of them,
but they're very proud of it.
Like Bj Penn obviously being one of the most vocal,
uh,
but there's,
there's a lot of guys who just won't.
But how many guys do you think are using?
My guests is about 50%.
50% of MMA athletes or professional.
What about professional athletes?
Period?
Depends on the sport.
Football.
Okay.
Tisdale's,
which I can't do it once again.
It's,
I want to go back and try to put this into perspective and I'll do it,
cause I know the numbers with baseball,
but this would also apply to football.
The major league players,
union baseball player's Union contract with MLB enables them to test 375 players
during the off season.
So that's about 31% of all the players in the league.
And this is during the off season.
They've agreed to this.
If you go back and look at the last five years of statistics,
you see that on average they only test about 50 players.
So which is less than 5% so if those who receive the majority of the financial
gain from major league baseball and control the drug testing have every right to
test,
these players are at least 31% or 375 players.
Why do they test only 50 and they tried to argue this with me.
And,
and you know,
I've,
I know a lot of major league baseball players and I,
and I talked to him and I know that there's a guy that's maybe one of the
highest paid players in the history of the league and his entire career,
which we won't say exactly,
but more than 15 year career,
he's only been tested one time during the off season.
They just don't do it.
What I'm saying is I believe there's,
they don't,
they lack a genuine interest in catching these athletes.
They want to promote this,
that they're for clean sport.
They wanted to,
to uh,
you know,
they're trying to reduce the drugs,
but they just don't take their hook and line and Poland throw it in the pond to
try to catch the fish when the fish are biting.
And why is that?
It's bad for business.
So it's sort of a charade.
They pretend to try to clean up the sport,
but they really,
they have to keep it light,
otherwise it'll ruin the game because the athletes need it in order to play at
that level.
Yeah.
Now I'm tracking field.
What percentage of traffic
and field they think,
well that's a history of really being dirty for a very long period of time.
I mean,
uh,
where you can see this,
and I'll give you an obvious example and that is with the women because they
typically have about 10% the amount of testosterone compared to a male.
So the effects are much greater on a woman than they are on a man.
If you go back and look at the women's records in track and field 100 200400800
1500 meter,
100 hurdles,
400 hurdles and those 70 events,
the world and Olympic records are from the 1970s and eighties
you got faster.
Mondo tracks now better spikes,
all sorts of additional training equipment and you would expect them to run
faster at the Olympic Games.
The winter runs around 49 seconds.
In the,
in the 400 meter world record is 47 60 and I was like 12 meters faster.
If you superimpose these records from the world and Olympic records compared to
what they just did at the Olympic Games,
you would see that there.
It's,
it's a joke.
They're there,
EH,
the world record in the hundred meters,
just 10 49.
So they ran whatever it was,
10 78 or maybe 10 70.
Uh,
the world record in the 200 2134 they run whatever it is,
2180,
but it's five meters slower 30 years later.
So what does that tell you?
That obviously these records are tainted.
Wow.
So,
and every time these athletes step up to the starting blocks,
if you're an a at a world championships,
you're an Olympic Games,
you see these records come up.
So they're not just competing against the athletes in the lanes next to them.
They're competing against these world and Olympic records,
which are obviously tainted.
And all the women now in track and field complained about this routinely that,
listen,
we can't get anywhere near these records.
So what does that mean?
So they,
WWF,
wait,
can do ramp up and ramp up the Olympic track and field record book.
Yeah.
What are you going to do with the Tour de France?
They said that if they take it away from Lance Armstrong and you have to give it
to the next runner up that didn't test positive on a drug test,
it would be 27th place.
Well,
there you go.
That's you know,
I don't know if you remember back in 2003 but this was right before balco was
raided.
I was helping a girl named Kelly White and she won was the first ever American
to win double gold in the hundred and 200 meters.
Um,
here's what happened.
Uh,
after the,
and she shows she tested positive and they took the metals away.
Within a short period of time,
the silver medalist tested positive and the bronze medal is tested positive.
Now in that particular race of the eight girls,
I believe that 100% of those girls were all on drugs.
I personally gave five of those girls drugs.
What kind of drugs was given besides ecstasy?
Take performance enhancing drugs combination,
give it to a lot of different things.
EPO,
growth,
hormone,
the clear,
they're all on EPO.
An EPO is essentially simulates what it's like to live at high altitude or your
mouth produces more red blood cells.
You know,
are you going to get the same types of results,
training at high altitude that you will from from using EPO?
The answer's no.
So epls more strong and much more powerful.
Wow.
Like much more powerful.
Like how many times more powerful?
Well,
let's say that a normal hematocrit is for,
for females around 40 and for a male is around 45 43 what is hermatocrit exactly
that same percentage of red blood cells to total whole blood volume.
You look at it and you spin it down in a centrifuge.
The top 55% is is the
plasma or serum it's called and the bottom 45% is the pack cells.
Now the word out there was that,
that you know Lance Armstrong,
the target was about 55% but I've seen another thing you have to understand is
that all anabolic steroids,
including the granddaddy of them,
all testosterone,
significantly increased red blood cell production.
And I've tested many,
many of the top bodybuilders in the history of the sport.
And you see guys coming back at 57 58,
59% hematocrit,
very,
very thick blood.
This is obviously dangerous.
Well most of them are not taking EPL.
They get this,
this increase in hematic rate from anabolic steroids.
So the antibiotics teller steroids increase endurance in the same exact way as
is capable of doing.
Is that what you're saying?
Yes.
Wow.
I didn't know that.
But everybody thinks of steroids is actually being bad for your cardio when it
comes to fighters because they put up so much muscle mass when they were on
steroids and that demands resources and that means the blood vessels have to
travel farther are there.
And the other thing that that's bad about that a lot of people don't understand
is,
and of course,
track and field,
they know this very well,
is you are much stronger and much faster off steroids than on steroids.
Really not.
Let me give you an example.
This guy,
uh,
the 10 months,
same Tim Montgomery,
that,
that I helped at at one point,
uh,
to break the world record and become the world's fastest human.
He had bought $16,000 with the drugs in early the year and in 2000 he'd run
about a little quicker than 10 flat and he run nine 92 and he said,
uh,
listen,
I bought all these drugs,
I took all these drugs.
I'm running 10:20 AM two meters slower.
What's the deal?
He said,
Tim,
get off.
Just go off.
They work through cell volumization,
they pump you up,
they make you tight,
they make you slow.
And they also don't understand some of the taper roster to freeze your strength.
They increase your strength.
So tapering,
maintain that strength every single for two weeks.
After you go off,
you maintain 100% of the strength.
But now you have a normal fluid balance and your muscles are much more relaxed
and much faster
now.
So these,
the really hardcore steroids you're talking about,
like the,
the ones that people get tested for like extremely antabolic ones or basically
even
regular testosterone.
All of them,
as you know,
they're all anabolic,
androgenic summer more one way or than the other.
And so is it just getting a certain amount of testosterone in your system and
that makes everything
off is the whole point.
Right?
You and a lot of guys don't understand.
He was trying to run fast while he was on.
And so what happened?
He followed my advice.
He went off and sure enough about three weeks later he ran two meters faster
being.
So it's because he kept the gains of being on the drugs,
but then the drug's negative effects wore off,
which is
tight,
that when you're not,
you know,
you're much slower.
So I don't care what you're doing,
if it would MMA fighting or,
or playing baseball,
you,
you would be much quicker by being off instead of on.
So I don't perform your best when you're on steroids.
Okay?
So steroids allow you to perform your best dirt because they build you up so
much in training that you almost have like supernatural strength.
And then when you're off of them,
then you perform at your best.
That's it.
Okay.
So it's a complicated sort of a timing situation with fighting isn't it?
They used to say 10 day taper,
they used to say 10 day taper and,
and I believe in,
and now I know that there are a number of,
or
people that use believe the best is a 14 day taper now for,
um,
for MMA fighters,
especially since MMA is such a controversial sport as this,
and there's so many instances of guys getting caught with PE ds,
it's so commonplace.
It's almost like every time the,
the tests come out,
all fighters tested for UFC one x and x,
whatever it is,
I cross my fingers like please don't be fucking positive because so many guys
test positive,
but then you don't see them for a year and it's like,
ah,
it's,
it's annoying that guy like Overeem,
when he tested positive,
like,
you know,
the matches we missed out on because this guy has got to sit out for a year.
It's fucking,
it's crazy bad advice.
Yeah.
Well,
in his situation,
absolutely.
But you're,
you're working with guys.
He worked with Kyle Kingsbury and no Neato Donaire and no Neato fucking amazing.
The other night,
woof,
that kid is,
that kid is dynamite.
He is one of the best living boxers right now.
You're very smart boxer.
Yeah.
He could tell his timing,
his technique and he's also very aggressive and I'd love watching that kid
fight.
He is,
he is fantastic.
And you work it with him.
You worked with Kyle Kingsbury and who else are you working with them?
Well I Lee.
Okay.
Going away.
Um,
there are other top UFC fighters that uh,
that do come to me and that I have tested and a consultation for and some of
these choose to keep it on the [inaudible] on the download.
And that's how I was going to ask you.
Since the MMA is such a controversial sport and you have this crazy past,
you know,
you're one of the few guys that actually did time for it,
uh,
what is it like when these guys,
you know,
when you approach these guys and have conversations with these guys,
is it,
are people reluctant to work?
We're very open and forgiving and I greatly appreciate that opportunity.
And others just are afraid of the,
the downside,
the stigma that,
you know,
they're gonna,
they're gonna think that they're on steroids.
Where in reality the guys that come to me and the guys that work with me are
probably some of the cleanest guys out there.
Kyle Kingsbury's is a fucking awesome guy,
puts a,
it puts a target on their back up a little bit.
Right.
Kyle Kingsbury's what a,
what a nice guy that guy is and what a ballsy guy.
I mean he's only been doing martial arts for a short amount of time.
It was essentially like a football player,
wasn't he?
Yeah.
Big.
He played football and Arabs,
they fucking super athlete kid.
What a stud and he started really learning how to fight in the,
the biggest organization in the world.
It's kind crazy cause he's,
he's a very ballsy dude for taking that up.
And he's a,
he's a great fighter.
He's just,
he's just a fucking heart and determination.
He's so tough.
But I mean he's fighting guys like Galvet to Sherra.
Glover has just so many years of training and experience elements.
It's kind of crazy that Kyle is a fighting all these really,
really tough guys.
It's that he's taken a,
a wild road to mixed martial arts,
a success as a career.
He's got a tough road,
but he's a great guy.
And a you work with him and you work with know Nieto.
And what do you do for these guys?
Well,
the first thing is to test their blood and,
and um,
she,
if there's any weak links and the nutritional chain and create a program that
will help them to achieve an optimal balance.
It's not about mega doses of anything.
It's just a correcting weak links or depletions and deficiencies.
And then secondly,
uh,
we have athletes where a memory belt,
which collects all sorts of different data.
Um,
caloric expenditure,
a Vo,
two Max ventilation.
Um,
the training load,
uh,
you were,
while you work out,
you wear it around your chest.
Can you wear away spar
Jiu Jitsu,
kickboxing and everything.
It just doesn't,
it doesn't move or it doesn't even seem waterproof.
Of course guy,
you'd have to wear a shirt over the top of it.
But you know,
grappling,
it may
be a problem,
but a lot of guys that I work with have this.
And then we collect that data and,
and you can graphically display it on a big screen TV that we have in my
conference room and we,
it's an index of a,
of their physical fitness.
We measure a lot of these um,
parameters that indicate overtraining.
I'm,
I'm just,
first thing I do is,
is,
uh,
and it seems like most of the boxers and MMA fighters have this two a day,
six days,
a week and Sundays off.
And it's just too much.
And what I mean by that is you see immune system suppression,
their white blood cell count,
normal say is about seven and these guys will go outside the loan to the range
at foreign down into the threes is something we discovered with Kyle early on.
Said,
listen to you,
you're,
you're overtraining.
If you keep this up,
you're going to end up being sick.
So this more,
there is no pain,
there's no pain is just weakness leaving the body.
All the,
everybody has a different constitution.
What you do for training,
you know,
what works for you may be completely different than works for Kyle or no Neato
or anybody else.
So I don't like athletes training more than three days in a row.
So typically what I suggest is they train Monday,
Tuesday,
Wednesday,
Thursdays off.
When you say off,
um,
can you have an active rest day?
Like what if he just drilled technique and disliked a lot of times all want them
to do,
you know,
art therapy,
active release technologies,
therapy or tissue massage,
um,
you know,
but rest and recover and sleep in and then Friday and Saturday and Sunday.
So active release you're talking about,
that's where they put pressure at the actual point and they move the lamb
instead of massaging,
they,
they actually move your good time massage type thing.
Yeah.
This is something that all the top guys,
tiger woods and,
and a rod and all these guys that were going to a guy named Mark Lens say,
who,
uh,
is in Toronto.
He's one of the top guys in the country.
I met him through Romo,
but it's something a lot of people have been trained in under mark,
but he works with a lot of the hockey teams.
And so this is really a,
you know,
a lot of the top names are using art applied,
uh,
this,
this specific technology that applied release,
is that what it's called?
Technology active release tech activities technology.
And the idea is just to keep everything loose or like what is it?
And sometimes they even have two people do it on you at the same time and hit
one will apply the pressure and the other will move the limb.
And of course it's to open that up and free these toxins that accumulated in
various places of the body.
Toxins accumulate.
That's what it is.
When you're feeling sore,
there's a toxins or it's damaged metabolic waste byproducts is specifically what
it is.
That's what people don't quite understand about.
Um,
muscle soreness.
The use of EPO,
let's talk about
that for a minute.
Okay.
Everybody thinks that it helps to deliver more oxygen molecules to muscle
tissue.
And it does,
but it's two way street,
meaning once,
yeah,
the red blood cell is there and dumping the oxygen,
it picks up lactic acid,
ammonia,
carbon dioxide,
these metabolic waste byproducts and removes those.
So you're delaying the onset,
the accumulation of lactic acid.
So it really helps with endurance.
Not because it's just delivering the oxygen,
but because it's removing these metabolic waste,
which are toxic byproducts from the system.
And interesting.
Okay.
So these different various drugs,
some of them are still not illegal,
is that correct?
As an EPO still they don't test for it in certain places.
The state commissions don't test for it.
So that's,
that's my big argument about what the state commissions are doing is,
is the the,
they don't test for EPO.
Yeah,
I read that and I'm like,
I heard they don't test for that was,
that's a crazy thing for growth hormone.
They don't test for synthetic testosterone.
So when they say,
wow,
these guys are getting busted,
you know,
all the time.
Could you imagine if they had effective testing?
What would be going on?
So these guys are getting busted because they're dumb.
Is that what it is?
They're just,
they're doing something dumb.
They're not,
they're not talking to a guy,
a knowledgeable guy that could sort of read their blood work and tell them
beforehand whether or not they're taking them out the right amount of time off
of it.
Is that what it is?
Let's talk about a specific case to illustrate what you just said.
Okay.
Lamont Peterson and the boxer that,
uh,
tested positive for synthetic testosterone.
Yes.
He went,
you work with them car?
No,
you don't.
but Vada the group that does testing is the one that busted him for synthetic
testosterone.
But here's what happened.
He went to a doctor in Las Vegas and his,
his,
uh,
total testosterone was five 63 perfectly normal loan under the ranges depending
upon lab with various lab,
your lab at like two 50 to 300.
So he's at five 63,
perfectly normal.
They found his free testosterone.
The,
the active portion that binds to the energy and receptor was a little bit low.
Well that could have been,
you know,
he was overtraining and all he needed was a few days of rest.
But this doctor,
uh,
told him,
okay,
let's just put this testosterone pellet in you.
So they made a little surgical incision,
inserted a palette.
This palette time releases about seven milligrams a day,
which is about your body's normal production.
And,
and they,
you don't even need a stitch,
they just put a little butterfly over.
So he fights Amir Khan for the world title and they test him and he's negative.
Now in Nevada,
in New York,
in Washington DC,
they use the 61 to e ratio.
So he was well below,
there was no issues.
Soon as he enrolled in Nevada testing where they,
this is what they do,
that's different than other testing,
uh,
associations is every single sample.
They use the cir carbon isotope ratio testing,
which can differentiate between endogenous production and exoticness
testosterone,
whether it be patched cream,
clear injection.
Okay.
So his tee ratio came back at 3.77 to one will.
Even the highest Olympic standard is four to one he is negative,
right,
but if you use this more sophisticated technology,
he came back and they identified that he had synthetic testosterone and his
system and of course later it came out.
Oh by the way,
I've got this pellet and my butt and,
and here's the reason.
Now I was told by somebody that I know that referred him to a doctor.
It has to be a doctor.
It's that said,
don't be surprised if there's a hundred boxers out there that have these pellets
in there button.
Now this pellet thing is a new thing I just heard about this couple.
The first time I heard about it was a couple of months ago and I thought someone
was joking with me.
No,
they,
they insert a bunch of pellets in them and they slowly dissolve and I was like,
that's fucking time released and typically you have to replace the pellet every
five months.
I can feel it in my butt.
I was like,
what are you doing?
Get bigger ones.
If you want one,
well,
they have different doses,
decides to go have different strengths,
200 milligram through 800 milligram.
Oh really?
Interesting.
So now what do you think about testosterone replacement for professional
athletes?
It's a very controversial subject and one of the reasons is there's guys that
are in their twenties that are on it.
Well,
let's talk about that for a minute and I don't want to try to shed some new
light on that because I've heard a lot of arguments.
I watched a little bit of your segment,
which Hell Sona and now he's saying it's legal,
it's legal,
you know,
and be able to do this and and so on.
Um,
I don't think he's right.
Uh,
he,
he obviously was suspended in the state of California.
Whatever he did wasn't,
not only was it not legal,
I guess now if he's using it and,
and he is regulated by the state that he fights him and he's got a therapeutic
use exemption.
It is legal.
Yeah.
Okay.
But I know when he was suspended,
it was not when he fought Sylvan in the state of California.
But here's something that I want to talk about for just a minute.
With anabolic steroids.
Every single steroid,
the test is qualitative.
It's not quantitative.
Many,
you can't have a certain amount and it's okay like caffeine,
but if you have too much and there's an allowable limit,
so if you've got a microscopic part per trillion and it's even there and it can
be identified,
that's it.
Your band,
it's a prohibited substance.
Well,
in the case of TRT,
when you're talking about,
and they use the word bio identical,
that's a very misleading term because that's what this doctor told Lamont
Peterson.
Well,
it's bio identical.
They won't cause a positive test.
You can take this stuff.
He has no clue what he's talking about.
Okay.
The background is this.
Your body makes testosterone out of cholesterol,
all forms,
injectable patches,
creams,
clear,
uh,
patches,
whatever it is,
the delivery system,
it's either made out of soy based plant or Yam.
So they use a test that's carbon isotope ratio test where they look at what they
call the [inaudible] 13 [inaudible] 12 ratio,
and they can differentiate between endogenous and exogenous.
Your body produced it or it's coming from outside and it's a year,
either positive or you're not.
Right.
So if it's even there and your body didn't produce it for all anabolic steroids,
you're suspended.
It's the same thing with,
with TRT.
It's,
it's a foreign substance.
Your Body didn't make it.
It's coming from outside.
Make sense?
So it's not about being quantitative,
meaning well,
you can have only a certain amount in your urine.
Now,
and I want to talk about this for a minute,
of up to four to one.
That's not true.
If the testers use this carbon isotope ratio test,
I'm gonna give you a specific example.
In 2006 Justin Gatlin who won the gold medal in 2004 and the 100 meters,
somebody drop dime on him and they said this guy is using testosterone.
So they went to him based on this intelligence,
collected a sample and it came back.
He t ratio was 0.5 to one.
It was lower than one to one yet with carbon isotope ratio.
They found out this guy used this exogenous form of testosterone and they banned
him.
This make sense?
Yeah,
I understand that.
But that's the Olympics.
The Nevada State Athletic Commission allows for testosterone replacement.
What is drawing a pedic use exemption.
Right,
but with a therapeutic use exemption will fade.
Go to them.
The doctor says,
Hey,
this guy's got low testosterone.
There's a bunch of fighters that are operating under that now.
It's not unique.
So that's not the Olympics.
You're talking about these guys or no,
he's the Olympics.
You're talking about MMA or boxing commission?
I'm talking about this.
I'm talking about fighters.
If they have an exemption,
then it's legal,
like chill said.
Right,
but so even though it's not produced by your body,
even though it is a foreign substance,
it's still not,
she had a prescription.
They could use any other way,
one of the available tremble loan or are Primo Bolen or parable on our or any
other steroid.
If a doctor Said said,
you can use this and you could get a therapeutic use exemption and use it,
could you?
Of course,
you sure can you get a therapeutic use exemption for steroids or can you only
get a therapeutic use exemption for testosterone replacement?
It seems like it's only you replacing what actually exists.
It's medically indicated for.
So do they give,
uh,
AIDS patients for wasting syndrome?
Do they give them other sorts of skills?
You don't need medical needs.
The answer's yes.
Well,
hyperactive people can't even take a,
like,
you can't even take Ritalin.
Like you can't take a,
what is the one that everybody loves?
Adderall.
Adderall,
that Adderall stuff.
Apparently there's something called [inaudible] Gill.
Do you know what that is?
It's provigil.
Provigil modafinil.
That's,
that's what I got busted for.
Did you really?
Wow.
How was the first guy that was given us to world class athletes?
That's what Kelly,
that's house for.
Yeah.
This is what they give to the fighter pilots and helicopter pilots and they use
it in the military.
That's what I get.
That's the first positive test that came down associated with me was Kelly White
with provigil in 2003.
Provigil is what,
uh,
Dave Asprey texts.
He didn't tell us that.
Yeah.
It's called a wakefulness promoting agent.
That date crazy bulletproof exec guy that got it takes provigil it takes me like
every day there's a whole video of him promoting it and they make them not take
it for a couple of days and he's talking about how cloudy is and then he takes
it and he works 20 hours a day.
Like there's a little more to his story that when he was telling us,
I feel like he left that out.
Yeah,
that's pretty important.
That is pretty important.
I think it's like a form of kind of like an Adderall.
Is that what it is?
And more intense Saturday.
I don't know if it's more intense.
I just think it's different.
It sounds pretty in government's involved.
It's probably the more intense,
I think everybody,
I think a lot of silica,
the uh,
the argument was that a lot of silicone valley exec sir,
our high on this stuff all day long.
I need to get him college students.
College students.
Yeah.
There was an article that said how many Silicone Valley exacts or hop up on
provigil provigil provigil apparently it's the fucking drug of choice.
He told he didn't tell us about that.
He's like,
I'm eating Yak meat and shit like calming effect.
You're on fucking speed kind of hearing you gotta eat,
can't hear every day.
He was talking to us about all these great things and I really believe him about
all those great things.
But I think the speed helps him too.
Yeah,
that's probably the number one thing.
The you're,
you're on top of shit because you're unfucking speed man.
If the difference,
but awesome.
Speed.
I hear the difference with Olympic caliber testing and what the Nevada state
athletic commission is doing,
giving these guys these TRTs is,
it's completely different standard.
I mean,
I don't think any of these,
these guys that the six or whatever it is,
MMA fighters that have these,
these therapeutic use exemptions for testosterone,
Nevada,
there's a lot ever.
It is whatever it is,
the number in Olympic sport,
uh,
for who knows a hundred thousand athletes,
you know,
there's ten thousand eleven thousand that compete at the Olympics.
The total in that group is something like 24.
You've already got 10 out of 375 guys and,
and,
and the UFC.
Yeah.
But you also have to deal with the fact that these guys are,
they're getting a lot of head trauma and head trauma reduces your body's ability
to produce testosterone.
Right.
I agree that that's certainly a factor.
Yeah,
that's it.
That's a sort of a,
an unknown factor.
And that's happening too.
That's one of the reasons for depression and a lot of athletes that have gotten
a lot of head trauma,
the pituitary gland is apparently very sensitive.
It's not,
it doesn't like get knocked the fuck out.
And you know,
if it happens a few times it could,
it can get damaged and it can,
uh,
it can stop your,
your ability to produce hormones that are regular rate
and,
and if it's a proper medical diagnosis,
which takes about four months to be properly done,
not,
you know,
one test and hey,
everything looks good and,
and,
and get the subscription.
I mean there's all sorts of things that if you wanted to manipulate the system,
you use steroids.
It suppresses your endogenous production to get a low reading and you get a
scrip.
Yes,
that's common sewing all.
It's very easy to,
to to trick the system if the standard is very low like it is in Nevada
and also the ethical way to treat a patient would be to try to address their
nutrition and minerals and vitamins first before you would introduce some sort
of IG.
Dot.
What is it x dodginess how you say exogenous,
exogenous for you introduce a foreign form of hormone.
That's exactly what I said about Lamont Peterson.
When the guy one test and I put the pellet in rest of the guy for a week and
come back and take a second measurement,
makes sure before you do this procedure and they,
it's just,
you know,
wham Bam.
And,
and,
and then they're in and,
and it is what it is and it's,
uh,
it's something that I'm not sure it may or may not be medically indicated in,
in each one of these cases where the,
these guys are being granted the,
these exemptions,
the,
the issue be it sort of gets to a point where the door's already open.
So now what it's like when he got [inaudible] and,
uh,
Dan Henderson,
these are the,
you know,
the vocal ones who have,
uh,
talked openly about it and it's quite a few other guys that did to fill Forrest
Griffin was just on it for his last fight and you know,
becomes one of those issues where you're like,
okay,
uh,
at what point in time did we take a look at this cause one of two things is
going on,
right?
These guys are in their thirties,
they need testosterone.
So it's either they're taking damage and the damages is messing up their body.
And if that's the case,
should they really be competing combat sports.
And if they,
if the only way for them to compete at their,
their own best level and combat sports is to take hormones.
It might be time to compete this top competing in combat sports.
I mean you,
you,
you know,
if you want to live the rest of your life and take synthetic hormones and,
and feel better because you take them,
that's one thing.
But maybe you shouldn't be getting hit in the head anymore too.
And someone needs to say that at a certain point in time,
there should be a masters category over a certain age.
What?
It should be a reason why.
Why is it 25 year old man on testosterone?
What's going on?
You need to tell him you need gotta be a reason.
And it can't simply be that he took testosterone for a while and fucked up his
balls because that seems to me that's,
that's like,
you know,
that's a,
that's a mess.
Like if fee,
if you do that,
I mean I'm not saying that you shouldn't ever be able to compete anymore,
but I'm kind of saying that because you,
you're going to always have a level that's like constant and consistent and
artificial and it has nothing to do with your,
you know,
how you're taking care of your body.
It has to do with what you're sticking in a CC,
where you're sticking in a needle that gets a little weird and when they argue
about,
well it's the standard deviation.
I hear Keith Kaiser talk about,
well I'm worried about this guy,
this one out of 500 or one out of a thousand that may have this level and you
know,
how about all the other guys that are competing against guys that may have a
competitive advantage because they've hoodwinked the system to get,
you know,
a competitive edge by using testosterone.
How about giving vision checks for those people that you have for judges?
How about that?
How about asking them what is it?
What's a triangle?
A Clark can show me on somebody when a triangle looks like and his elk here,
or is he in trouble?
What's going on here?
This is a choke or is this not a choke?
This is t cause this kind of about the top or is this nothing you do you even
fucking know.
There's some of that,
some of the scorecards that come in and you just go,
how is that even possible that in the super bowl of MMA at the top of the peak,
these athletic commissions are providing these judges and they're providing them
over and over again and the same ones make terrible decisions after terrible
decisions he needs.
They need to clean up a lot of that shit.
I agree.
It drives me fucking crazy when I see a guy fight his heart out and I see a bad
decision that drives me nuts.
Man.
That is a sad,
sad thing to see,
to see in competence and nonsense cost someone a victory and to see that look on
their face.
Like I know I fucking beat that guy.
And then you go over the watch the tape.
But maybe I was biased.
Maybe I was there.
Maybe.
Maybe I was looking at it the wrong way.
And let me watch it again.
And you watch it again.
It's like what the fuck?
Who the fuck was,
it doesn't even make any sense in a word.
What you just said too about all of the above is it's a mess.
Yeah.
It's,
everything's a mess,
right?
Politics are a mess.
This is a mass,
the Olympics or mass,
all of it's a mess.
So you,
what you do with these guys like Kyle Kingsbury and no Neato Dinair is a,
you keep them on the straight and narrow with the best possible legal ways of
helping your body.
Yes.
And to make sure they're not,
what does Zma Zinc,
magnesium,
what else is in the zinc,
magnesium and vitamin B six and its specific forms of zinc and magnesium that
are very bioavailable and uh,
it's actually the very first product that was introduced to the sports nutrition
market,
uh,
to specifically enhance sleep efficiency and a product that you take at night
before you go to bed and it boost testosterone to it,
doesn't it?
Well,
a number of things happen during sleep.
Uh,
the
first time that you're,
you'd go through about three cycles of five stages and when you get to,
it looks like three years in a row.
So when you get to the bottom of this,
it's called Delta or slow wave or stage three,
stage four sleep.
The first time that you're,
you go into this very deep sleep where your heart rate is significantly reduced,
70% of your body's out daily output of growth hormone is released in a,
in a single burst.
This mass that they can measure.
And there's all sorts of things that,
um,
light sound temperature that can affect you not going into a very deep sleep.
So that's one of the things is to target relaxing the body with magnesium and
getting you into a very deep and restful sleep.
And the little bit of B six is to double the absorption of both the,
the zinc and magnesium.
So the first half of sleep is when most of your daily output of growth hormone
is released.
The second four hours is when your system produces testosterone.
So this is why guys wake up with a woody,
uh,
your testosterone level is double in the morning compared to what it is in the
evening.
So I realized that when do you maximize tissue repair,
healing,
recovery,
regeneration,
and that's at night when you're sleeping.
So that's why I put together that formula.
It was instantly a very huge success.
Selling hundreds of thousands of bottles a month and now there's over 130
companies selling it worldwide.
It's everywhere and it's,
there was no competition.
You had pre workout,
post workout,
meal replacements,
diet supplements,
but not asleep product.
So when it got introduced,
uh,
it became very successful and continues to be very successful.
You heard a secretary open,
it's a new light bulbs,
Somol growth hormone replacement.
You spray it on your tongue.
That's a arginine.
All these different,
the,
you think it works?
I don't know.
I don't think it does.
No.
I think this one has,
one has tasks behind that.
It's by a doctor,
Dr. Mark Gordon.
He's the guy that,
uh,
was famous for working with James Tony and a bunch of other athletes,
works with a lot of us soldiers that have traumatic brain injury.
If the basis is Arginine,
the original song,
don't listen to me,
dude,
where they show the connection between our Janine and,
and growth hormone levels was an Italian study.
But to get any increase in growth hormone took 17 grams or 17,000 milligrams of
arginine.
You'd have to take a whole bottle.
Yeah.
No,
that's,
it's,
there's something about the way.
Um,
they've,
uh,
they've made us light bulbs,
so delivery,
um,
something about the way they've used frequency to ceiling wall.
Yeah.
But the way they've managed to make the molecule smaller by some,
some sort of a process.
It was explained to me by a guy way
fucking smarter than me.
But uh,
because of the fact that it fits into your blood cells,
that in this light bill,
some old delivery,
that it actually is effective supposedly,
but it's a bunch of amino acids and other different things that they've shown in
clinical tests of over 11 different years of a bunch of various tasks that,
that it's effective.
Do you need a prescription for your boner cream?
You have Boehner cream,
I mean,
steroid cream for men.
Zma is not a boner cream.
No.
The stuff that you put on at night,
this Zma Zinc,
magnesium helps.
We have two forums is can you have a quiz?
You know,
we have a,
uh,
a powdered drink.
Oh,
okay.
You can't see,
cause if you had a Korean,
Brian would beat off.
Why'd you think it was a great hire?
He said boner.
Well,
it's uh,
it's minerals,
right?
I mean,
are amino acids right?
It's and then rolls in.
It does have my fine and,
and some amino acids in it.
Yes.
Aspartic acid.
It does.
I know.
Argentines good to take at night too,
right,
isn't it?
There's a lot of things that you should take at night that are really,
I,
you know,
I'm a big fan of,
of a case in my cellar protein to take at night.
There's other better forms like whey protein isolates that have a higher rate of
prose protein synthesis that to take immediately after you work out.
But when you're sleeping,
you need to type that will bring that positive nitrogen balance for a longer
period of time where whey protein isolates a,
the effect is about three hours.
The case in my sellers about seven hours.
Is that why people take um,
uh,
cottage cheese at nine too?
Cause it takes a long time to digest.
So it gives you a slow,
a slow burn protein.
And do you make athletes wake up to take protein or is that bullshit you meet in
the middle of the night?
I hear that
fanatical bodybuilders wake up in the middle of the night to do it.
An injection of growth hormone.
Jesus Christ.
I didn't mean that.
I meant did they get up in the middle of the night and drink a shake?
I've heard like,
what's that chick's name that was in that movie,
million dollar baby.
She got all yoked Hilary swank.
I always thought she was hot.
A lot of people don't,
they think she's kind of manly.
I think you're fucking crazy.
So it's buckwild too,
man.
You know what I'm saying,
victor.
But anyway,
she got real yoked when she was in that movie and uh,
she said that she had to get up in the middle of the night and drink protein
shakes.
You know,
one of the other very important things that,
uh,
I think people overlook is hydration,
right?
I see a lot of guys MMA fighters that just,
uh,
are dehydrated and I just don't,
um,
they don't drink adequate fluids.
Uh,
I don't know if I should talk about a specific guy,
but there's a high level MMA guy that just was having all sorts of issues with
his training and performance and he was dried up like a prune.
Who is an Josh Thompson.
Really?
Wow.
Well he looks fucking tremendous.
And his last fight,
did you work with him?
Yes.
Well it makes sense cause he's like one of those Bressler dudes that would
probably overtrain a little bit and wine up and just kind of
suck it up and keep going.
But he,
he uh,
apparently his wife helps him and,
and whatever time it is,
he goes to train,
she gets up and takes the bottles of water and puts numbers on them.
And by the time she gets home,
he better have been sixth one before it goes on.
But he's drinking about 10,
16 ounce bottles of water a day,
an hour before he just,
whenever he was thirsty or it didn't even really think about it.
And through the testing we were able to determine that he was just very
dehydrated and that just that one simple piece of information and change
according to,
you know,
Javier Mendez is coach made a huge difference and in his training and
performance.
Yeah,
I found out that I was dehydrated once by taking one of those a body fat test
where you stand on something where it,
it registered.
I'd taken one recently and it registered me like three or 4% higher body fat
that I knew I was and I was like,
that's crazy.
I go,
that seems weird.
Is it like not that accurate?
And he's like,
the only time it's inaccurate is if you're dehydrated.
And I was like,
oh,
I'm dehydrated.
And so I started drinking water again.
I drank water,
took it again and my body fat was 4% lower.
It was like it was reads an electrical frequency through your body and when
there's no water in your body,
it's not firing as good.
It's more resistance.
And so your whole body operates with more resistance.
It has less,
less energy.
It had literally has a less electricity pulsing through it.
That's one of the things that I have these MMA fighters.
Boxers do.
A lot of times they have to cut obviously to make weight.
Um,
there's a number of things involved there,
but when it comes time after the way in to to replay hyper hydrate,
I have him take Celtic Sea salt and a quarter teaspoon and 16 ounces of water
and a a drink at least two before they shift over to a Cytomax or pedialyte or
some other form of electric light replacement.
Who's teaspoons of the salts?
They'll quarter,
quarter to quarter teaspoon,
which would have about five,
600 milligrams of sodium.
So all in all a half a teaspoon in two glasses of water.
That's right.
It would be the first thing after the way in.
That was one of the things that Dave Asprey,
it said that he does every morning so that people are missing out on that.
And,
and the reason
a lot of people don't realize this,
but seawater has almost the identical concentration of minerals and trace
elements as the fluid portion in your blood called serum or plasma.
So by far the highest concentration of any men roller element is sodium at about
3000 parts per million.
But you also have calcium at about a hundred parts.
Potassium and phosphorus are about 150 parts.
These other trace elements are very important.
So when it comes time to replete,
come back up,
you want to have the exact same ratio of all these minerals and trace elements
in your system first.
And of course the sodium is what causes the retention.
Where I've got guys,
you know,
do this before they fight as well cause you,
you'll,
you'll retain throughout the course of a fight.
The uh,
the amount of fluid that you retained is much greater if you sodium load.
What a tricky,
tricky fucking thing it is that everybody is like 90 plus whatever it is,
percent water,
whatever.
What percentage is it?
Probably 70.
We live next to the ocean and we can't even drink that shit that fucked up.
You can't even drink it.
It's like that's on in nature's like,
you know what?
We've got to make it a way harder for you to get water.
If we let you guys drink all this water,
there'd be no ocean could drink all the water.
We just suck it right out.
And then secondly,
what a lot of people don't realize is that your skin is the,
is the largest organ in your body.
So I have guys take a bath after the weigh in but not hot bath cause it's
thermogenic.
It would go out,
they do that to cut but room temperature bass for 10 minutes and their,
their water,
their,
their systems soaks water like a sponge and Epsom salts is an excellent source
of magnesium.
You absorb magnesium through your skin through Epsom salt baths.
That's why people have always,
you know like people say,
oh you take an Epsom salt bath.
Like what the fuck is that going to do for you?
It sounds like stupid.
But then you realize that your skin actually absorbs the magnesium from that
APP.
Very important for muscle relaxation.
You know,
people that drink Epson salt.
Yeah.
That's only to just still below it out.
You got a problem,
man,
that will blow it out.
Your system just goes released.
That's how the girls in la stay fat.
Yeah.
You'll find pieces of your furniture,
you know,
you ate
flying out of your ass into the toilet.
You'd be surprised.
These basic things we're talking about that the guys at the very top,
just like Josh as an example,
you never let mean,
he's just train hard,
train like crazy.
And I said,
listen,
you know,
we found something here that could be very important.
His last fight with Gilbert Melendez,
he looks sensational.
If you can attribute that to you,
uh,
figuring out that he was a dehydrated,
that's amazing because that was the,
you know,
I know,
uh,
that they've had fights before and,
and Gills,
a fucking super tough guy and that was the best.
Josh.
It never looked against him.
He looks sensational.
Just a great fight.
It was one of those fights where you're kind of sad that anybody,
one,
you know,
it's like that was such a,
it was such a close fight.
I'm certainly not a judge,
but I thought Josh did Goodwin.
I thought he could've won easily.
Uh,
it could,
I mean he had a lot of sweet takedowns to where he was a sort of choke slamming
them,
you know,
tripping them and you know,
it was just,
he just looked great.
He had great endurance,
fought well on his feet and it's just great.
Fight Melendez is fucking awesome.
I love watching snack.
I imagine the effect if we're talking about the red blood cells or are
delivering oxygen and removing these metabolic
waste byproducts with every breath.
Well,
if you're well hydrated,
it's like having an eight lane freeway and all of a sudden you get dehydrated
and now you get a three lane freeway.
How many bots?
A lot more difficult to deliver and pick up and remove when you're not well
hydrated.
So the sodium and carbohydrate and other things that can help,
you know,
you will sweat less,
you will retain,
uh,
the fluids.
It will tremendously improve your stamina and endurance.
Sodium,
sodium,
and carbs.
People have always told you all your life.
Keep away from salt.
Sodium is bad.
So do you,
makes you retain water and get fat and have heart attacks.
Isn't that funny?
Victor Conti and Dave Aspery are telling you to put sea salt.
Dave went as far as Himalayan sea salt because he's that kind of pimp,
you know.
Well,
and they're not all the same.
So He's right.
There are some sea salt that doesn't have these other minerals and trace
elements that I'm talking about.
I've,
I've had athletes by the wrong type.
Oh,
well he says you should get that stuff too because there's less pollution.
It's impure.
Um,
now when you see like top,
do you do monitor top training camp?
So you see like,
like the,
the Diaz brothers and Cesar Gracie's and you see those guys?
Do you try to figure out,
okay,
who's working smart?
Who's,
who's using,
you know,
the,
the proper blood testing and finding out what their,
you know,
nutritional requirements are and who's just going old school,
rocky drinking eggs in the morning and running hills.
Usually I just come to me,
I don't,
you know,
I'm not a hired gun.
I don't go out to different camps or different fighters.
You don't pay attention to it at all?
Well I do,
but a lot of people come to me and want me to go to Mexico or come to Los
Angeles.
I'm 62 Kinda semiretired.
I'm right down the street from undisputed boxing gym where we're not Ito trains
there in San Carlos,
about four miles from my house.
Um,
so athletes that want to come to where I am,
that's where Josh comes.
That's where Kyle comes.
Um,
then I work with them.
So,
so I'm just really not out there pursuing opportunities.
I,
if it's fun,
like I said,
that's my mantra.
If it's not fun,
I don't do it.
Uh,
then,
and the chemistry's right then,
then I help people.
But I certainly don't do it for the money.
It's,
it's a really about just enjoying being in the trenches with athletes.
Now,
this a Veda testing stands for the voluntary anti doping association.
Is that what it is now?
This is a,
for people that want to go above and beyond the requirements of athletic
commissions.
That's for people that are saying,
okay,
I'm going to show the world that regardless of whether or not you think that the
flooded commissions,
urine tests are flimsy,
we're going to take some like voluntary tests that are much more stringent.
We're going to find exogenous testosterone.
What's the word here is voluntary.
Yes.
So some people,
there's this whole deal with the quote Olympic style testing,
which I is not really what it is,
but God started with Floyd Mayweather.
He was the one that was demanding with Shane Mosley and Victor Ortiz and these
other guys that he's fought,
that everybody that fights him,
you know,
if you want to fight the best,
you've got to take the test,
right.
Mantra that that.
Um,
but that's really not Olympic style testing that we're doesn't apply at all.
To me because at the core of that definition is 24 seven three 65 and as I said
earlier,
if he's doing this eight weeks out from a fight,
of course if you're hungry,
a half loaf of bread is better than none,
but what was he doing six and nine months before as we talked about,
so you could load up like crazy for months and months,
still retain some of the benefits of then show up and retain a lot of the
benefits and then show up at a fight and say,
okay,
you're the guy when you're ready to go into the testing and then drag him into
it the following day.
Is it a case of where there's smoke?
There's fire,
I mean with all these like many pack yet there's a perfect sample.
Manny Pacquiao was,
he's gone through eight different weight classes.
Manny Pacquiao started off what was the a hundred and what?
606 pounds all the way up to,
what was he fighting?
You know when you fought Margarito how big was Margaret Margaret?
I was like one 68 in an hour,
but in there he was like one 68.
I mean,
that's incredible.
To go from one oh six to fighting a big guy like Margarita.
Um,
you know,
a lot of people have accused him of stuff.
Do you know anything?
I'm highly suspicious.
I've said this publicly.
I mean,
there's no doubt in my mind that when you're not subjected to testing and uh,
you know,
I do,
I think it's been going on for a very long time,
including,
you know,
back in the Philippines.
That's my opinion is yes,
I believe that he's been doing stuff.
So it,
it's a,
but I want to go back for just a minute to what you were asking about Vata and,
and the vault aspects being voluntary.
And this is what no Nieto is doing now is he just stepped up and,
and this is the great thing that's different than you saw the or commission
testing is that both fighters,
you know,
or wherever they're fighting or going to be subjected to the same testing or
these guys,
now we want a contract and we're both gonna do this testing and here she was
going to do it.
It's going to be bothered.
It's going to be you solder,
whatever.
Uh,
no needs,
needs have just entered a 24,
seven,
three 65.
He's in the pool just like an Olympic athlete.
And whenever they come and he's able to do this on an individual basis.
So if his opponent wants to do it,
great.
If he doesn't want to do it,
he offered it to the guy from Japan that he fought the other night.
I didn't have an interest.
Okay,
well it didn't have an interest,
but no neato wants to show his fans and,
and lead by example and show his sport that he's the real deal.
That he has nothing to hide and everything to prove.
Yes it is.
Yeah.
You have something to do with Vida,
you know,
I provide consultation Nevada and people talk about that.
Is there a conflict of interest and so on.
I became an antidoping advocate in 2005 that's when you went to jail?
No,
I,
yeah,
that is when I went to jail.
That's good.
But that's a good reason to become.
Like obviously this show was actually the about was actually before I went to
jail.
I met twice with Usada.
Uh,
and it wasn't to give information on,
on anybody.
I didn't rat on anybody.
I didn't talk about specific athletes.
It was just to talk to them about methods that I use to circumvent the testing
and where are these loopholes were.
So like a hacker could give a company advice on how to keep their system from
getting hacked exactly what I did.
And so I helped them.
I had three different meetings with them and went over thousands of pages of
documents and,
and it wasn't an exchange for leniency.
I got nothing out of it other than me trying to,
to make a contribution to the collective effort.
Thereafter,
I helped a Dwayne chambers are,
or that I worked with,
uh,
from the UK.
And he asked me to write a paper that listed every single drug that I gave him,
the purpose,
the frequency of the dosage of the brand,
uh,
which I did.
And so he submitted that to the UK anti-doping and then some people from BBC,
you know,
asked me for my prescription,
how would you clean this up?
And so I wrote a paper about,
you know,
how the testing could be set up in a way that would be much more effective.
And that got submitted to,
uh,
to water.
And eventually they reached out to me and,
and flew me to New York.
And I met with the chairman at that time,
Dick Pound,
and spent a lot of time with him and on him.
He liked that pain,
dig pound the account.
Uh,
and so anyway,
so,
so I provided consultation with them and I've worked on them with several
different projects.
And so Martin or Goodman from Vada reached out to me and yes,
I provided consultation to her and there are been formerly of the Nevada State
Athletic Commission.
Yes.
She was the chairman of the medical advisory board for nine years.
And her significant other who's also the vice president of Awda is skip is flip
Hemanth ski.
Who was the chairman of that same uh,
Nevada medical advisory board for her for a decade before that.
He's actually the guy that implemented the very first anabolic steroid testing
in the state of Nevada.
Now how is the distinction made between what is legal and what is illegal Zma
even though it's effective and it makes your body produce more testosterone and
growth hormone and all this good stuff.
That's it.
Legal things have a committee and it's,
you know,
they have a strong pivoted substances list.
But is it based on efficacy?
Because if that's the case wizened Zma where you're saying anything that works
is performance enhancing.
So where do you draw that line?
Very good question.
And I'll tell you the interesting aspect and drastic difference between state
commissions and water.
And you saw [inaudible] and Vata or anybody that follows the the world
anti-doping code is the way their system works is everything is illegal unless
you,
uh,
get permission from us.
So any drug,
I mean the,
the whatever it is.
So if you go to them when you say you need testosterone
and you submit your medical records and you get one,
but that's even actually more restrictive,
if that makes sense.
So unless,
you know,
you just have to make a declaration,
you have to tell us what you're taking in advance and if we don't like what it
is,
then we'll let you know.
Do you feel like testosterone replacement shouldn't be a part of any sport?
Do you feel like it's,
it's just might as well be cheating or it's just too easy to manipulate or it's
very easy to manipulate?
I,
I've talked about this as an example with baseball players when they had a
couple of positive tests for synthetic testosterone recently,
actually three of them.
And there's been seven or eight in the last six months.
Um,
these fast acting creams and gels,
they can play a game 10 o'clock.
They rub this cream on after the game,
it peaks it about four hours.
And the system aiding with recovery and,
and tissue repair by eight hours,
they're back down to baseline.
But,
but six hours later,
they're below the four to one t ratio.
So they can use it every single day to enhance recovery after games and they
will never test positive.
Wow.
And how long does this stay inside your system for?
Like Beta test?
What I,
what I recommend.
And in fact,
before Ryan Braun,
the MVP who tested positive,
that was the home run guy.
Uh,
and in fact,
he's up this year,
I think for the same title,
but I said back then when they got ready to introduce growth hormone,
that was a huge mistake and it was a waste of money.
Growth Hormone,
in my opinion.
And according to the researchers at Stanford does not enhance performance.
Will it help you burn body fat?
Yes.
Will it help you make your muscles bigger?
Will it help accelerate the healing and tissue repair?
Connective Tissue Ligament Tendon type type injury?
Yes.
Does it make your muscles stronger and faster?
The answer's no,
but it helps you heal.
So if you're recovering,
it helps you recover quicker from,
you know,
you can work out harder.
So it doesn't hence,
well the studies that they've done,
there's no science showing that it makes you stronger or faster.
Right.
But isn't that sort of illogical?
We listened to what we just said.
I understand it.
So like I said,
it burns body fat,
makes the muscles bigger,
makes the tissue,
doesn't make you stronger or faster.
Right.
Bottom line is if it's for cosmetics and you're a bodybuilder,
no,
no.
You said it makes tissue recover faster and that is the point of working out
your workout.
Your tissue breaks down,
it gets stronger and it heals quicker if you're on growth hormone.
That alone.
So you're saying in recovery and benefit means you can train and get a deeper
training load.
Yeah.
It allows you to train harder.
It allows you to recover faster than normal,
which is a big part of what training is all about.
Training is not just training and you get stronger.
The harder you work,
you get stronger,
you know,
you have to recover.
And if you're recovering in an unnatural rate because you're taking growth
hormone,
then guess what?
Growth Hormone is allowing you to get stronger.
Here's the argument.
I don't think you can compare testosterone to growth hormone.
Correct.
Anabolic testosterone is classified as an anti catabolic agent.
It's not even classified as being anabolic.
All I'm saying is that you can't say,
I mean whatever their study says,
it doesn't make you stronger.
That's silly.
That's a silly study.
It allows you to train harder.
Let me back up.
It was a review of every single study ever performed and not a single one of
them showed that it did make you stronger,
faster.
So why do all the review article,
but all these athletes take it and they all claim that it makes them stronger.
It helps.
You want to know why?
Yes,
because they stack it with steroids and the steroids help you create the protein
synthesis.
It's a leap frog.
You make the gains and then it helps you with the retention of those gains.
So the growth hormone and the steroids together are effective.
The growth hormone by itself does not make you stronger.
Candy flats it their candy in like a motherfucker,
Brian.
Wow.
And how did all this information get mainstream mean?
Was it Soviet scientists?
Like who,
who was the first person to figure out how to manipulate hormones and add
different things and you know,
okay,
we'll,
we'll talk about that
Diana Ball,
the first American steroid in a minute,
which they,
this guy's Ziglar,
a weightlifting coach for the United States in the 50s.
Got It.
From the Soviet block.
You knew they were doing stuff,
but I want to go back to this other point about testosterone.
Okay,
please do.
Um,
now I forgot what I was saying.
How dare you,
you want them to go back but you don't know where the fuck you going.
Well,
what we were talking about was introducing artificial testosterone and whether
or not artificial,
okay.
It was about baseball and Ryan Braun and,
and the specific test.
And I got a call from,
from the editor,
Terry Thompson,
a of the New York Daily News Sports Department.
And she was asking for my comment about that they are going to do this growth
hormone test and baseball and introduce it,
the minor leagues.
I said there,
it's not the highest and best priority for the funds that are available to do
testing.
They need to introduce this cir,
this carbon isotope ratio testing because that has a significant effect upon
performance and the players are doing it on a daily basis and they're coming
back under the four to one and it's a huge you loophole and they should,
instead of doing this with growth hormone,
which is an anti catabolic agent,
you could eliminate the use of the anabolic agent testosterone with those exact
same dollars.
They both cost about $400.
Okay.
All of this was,
again,
this is some of his legal,
some of it's illegal growth hormone across the board as illegal.
Correct.
Everyone says it's illegal.
Now there's a lot of people that,
a lot of other factors I'm in,
doctors are prescribing it.
It's off label use.
Uh,
uh,
you know,
that's,
I don't know about the legality of it.
But then you know places like Florida and Arizona and Nevada,
there's a lot of these clinics that are for anti aging longevity purposes.
I'm sure they're there.
Yeah,
no,
that's not what I mean.
I mean for sports,
I mean like for MMA,
no one's legal team to have testosterone or to have human growth hormone.
I've never heard of human growth hormone exemption because they can't test for
it.
Correct.
I don't believe they have an effective test for it.
They've actually got two tests for it and they use both of them at the regional
Olympic Games,
but they don't last very long at the most.
After an injection they can possibly detect it maybe up to 36 hours.
What is the,
what's the future when it comes to this stuff?
Because it makes me think that if you're sticking pellets and your ass and
butterflying them in there and all the different stuff,
the creams and all this different jazz,
when owl,
how far away,
how far are we from real genetic manipulation?
How far are we from something that changes human beings on,
you know,
on the,
the,
the level of the information.
That's inside their cells.
I don't think it's all that that close really talking about when,
when is it?
Is it going to be at the Athens Olympics?
Is it going to be in Beijing?
Is it going to be in London?
I'm an I still don't see gene doping.
Do you think that it's possible?
Yeah,
it seems inevitable.
That's my question.
You're saying,
you know it's possible I might not see in a week or a month or a couple of,
it's prohibited and they're attempting to develop a test for it and they're
working in conjunction with these companies that are manufacturing these
products and signed it happen.
Isn't Monsanto involved in genetics now?
I believe Monsanto is involved that they did.
It was maybe that pharmaceuticals,
whatever the fuck it was,
he got to get a company like Monsanto involved in the whole sports doping,
performance enhancing.
They'll figure out some shit.
They'll figure out how genetically modified.
I want to go back and clarify.
You know,
my position,
what I think about you,
the use of testosterone and because of the,
you have the ability through this carbon isotope ratio testing to differentiate
between endogenous and exogenous testosterone,
regardless of the delivery system,
that it should be classified like all the rest of the anabolic steroids.
In other words,
it's not quantitative.
Well you can have up to four to one or you can have,
you know,
allowed so much,
but over that it either has to be,
it's qualitative.
You can either do it or you can't.
You're either pregnant or you're not.
This,
as soon as you allow it on a,
on a quantitative basis,
you're going to have the abuse that we're seeing now.
I mean it's,
it's,
and where do you draw that line?
What is abuse and what's not?
I mean it's,
it's,
it's a mess.
Yeah,
it is a,
it's an interesting philosophical debate.
You know about what you know,
like I've heard guys say that they would take testosterone and they would take
human growth hormone when they,
you know,
get to be 50 years old,
but they will not take it while they're fighting because they don't want to ever
think.
The only reason why I got here is because I cheated because I had to take
something.
I couldn't just do it with my willpower and I couldn't just do that with,
with do it with my discipline.
And then you got guys who just,
you know,
rampage says he just started taking,
it never felt better.
I said it was like really down in the dumps.
It's really bothering him now.
He's taking in.
He's well,
it's recreational.
It does make you feel good.
I'm sure you probably know.
Well,
it's also,
it doesn't just make you feel good.
It actually makes your body performed bat of course.
So is that fair?
How,
what happens there?
I mean it's obviously legal.
They made it legal in Nevada.
They've,
uh,
in most,
you know,
in California,
California even made medical marijuana legal.
So,
I mean you can,
you can have medical marijuana exemptions now.
So there it's,
it's,
it's allowed.
So is that a mistake?
I don't think it's a mistake.
You know,
I have a lot of personal friends that,
that are on testosterone replacement therapy.
Are they professional athletes that the fighters?
No.
So that's where it gets weird,
right?
I back in pre balco rate days from 1996 through to 2003 I was on TRT
and absolutely loved the effects.
Moderately.
Yeah.
Well you weren't fighting.
The real question is,
should it be okay for guys to compete in a sport where you're,
your goal is to punch someone in the head and you're,
you can turn your body into a far more efficient killing machine when you're too
stuck on the sauce.
And there's absolutely no doubt about the effects and how the tremendous,
tremendous advantage that it gives you in terms of,
of power and speed.
It's huge.
Well,
that's why it's weird.
It's like,
it's like this is a different sport.
It's not a,
it's not as simple as,
you know,
you just want to look better or you want to know,
no,
you can hurt someone more and you could hurt someone in a situation where maybe
you couldn't hurt them.
You know,
like when Cyborg tested positive and everybody will said,
you know,
first of all they said Duh.
And then after they said,
Duh,
they said,
well,
you know,
think about like the beating that she gave Gina Carano.
Would she have even been able to do that if she was natural,
if she wasn't just ridiculously freakish man,
like strong.
And she says it's the only time she ever did anything and who the fuck am I
guess?
But from what I've talked to,
we had a hormone doctor on the show.
He's got doctor Steve Graham and he said,
that's not even possible for a woman to look like that if she's not taking
testosterone.
I have a friend named Bill Romanowski who once said,
as soon as an athlete starts to use drugs,
they become a liar.
Yeah.
Especially in a sport like that and MMA and you're,
you know,
you're a woman,
no moment wants to admit she's got man juice inside of her flowing through our
veins for Cerner.
Look all manly.
I went to get some of this testosterone.
I saw it,
I saw the other day.
I think about how when he turned 35 years,
your body just starts losing it like crazy.
I don't think I had any to begin with.
So now I'm like negative.
I think you're like a void.
Your girl,
the girl.
But the sip appeared,
but the symptoms,
the symptoms were like,
you know,
you're just like really tired and were also smoke cigarettes.
The research is that at 30 years of age
you began to decline by about 1% per year.
So by the time you're 45,
you might have a a 15% reduction.
And at this recent,
uh,
association of Ringside Physicians Meeting,
they presented some data and they said that of the men over 45,
that 8% had a medical need for testosterone replacement therapy.
So it's not like you hit 35 and it's over.
There's a very gradual
flying,
right.
Well it's also what we talked about earlier that an ethical person when they
want to adjust your hormones,
the first thing I'm going to look at is your diet,
your exercise and your sleep patterns.
This mother fucker is a mess and you know,
he wants to stick pellets in his ass and just looking for ways to Helton is
asked why it's always really,
really tired.
So once in sweetie,
not that healthy and you know that you're smoking cigarettes.
And so one of the least tell him,
tell him about cigarettes.
Victor Year,
you're a math science.
Do you want one?
They're loaded with cabinet,
which,
which inhibits the absorption of zinc and zinc reduction lowers uh,
androgen receptors and increases estrogen receptors.
So keep smoking and you'll become more feminine.
And if you don't have zinc in your body,
you have smaller loads.
That's right.
Let's see.
Internal volume.
I must have reduced.
It must have a lot of,
he said,
I think the way I said it sounded sexy though.
Smaller loads like semen reduction and hospital observed.
There's a famous study by Dr Ohm and he couldn't,
he was trying to figure out why
alcoholics develop feminine light characteristics and alcohol depletes zinc.
And over time he gets over time that reduces your testosterone,
that reduces the number and size of androgen receptors and then increases the
number of estrogen receptors.
So if you're an alcoholic,
eat better load up on zinc.
I need to get some zinc,
zinc and water.
Yeah.
What alcohol is also an Immuno suppressant,
right?
What does exactly does that do to your,
your system when you drink and zincs?
A very powerful,
uh,
immunostimulant you know,
every,
you know about zinc,
throat laws,
injures and sync is everywhere.
It's great when you're sitting there.
Very good.
Anabolic of all,
uh,
minerals.
Really.
Absolutely.
It's,
it's,
there's no question at first it was in,
in many different diseased populations.
You never heard about the discovery of zinc deficiency?
I have,
yeah.
Andre [inaudible] in 1961 and in Iran.
And then I confirmed a study and,
and again,
in 63 and Egypt,
long story short,
they had a,
a group of a teenage male boys with,
with a dwarf dwarfism and hypogonadism.
And they found out that was a high percentage of clay in the Diet that was
inhibiting the absorption of zinc.
And they gave them 50 milligrams of zinc a day.
And in a period of one year,
they grew over a foot in height and the size of their sexual organs over
doubled.
How much sinks that I take every day,
like 200 milligrams.
Like zinc makes you tick gross on.
Is it safe to take zinc every day or is that something he's just went to
unlimited access?
Yeah,
I wouldn't take the,
the upper limit they say is 40 milligrams.
Uh,
Zma contains 30 milligrams per serving.
Cma.
I wouldn't go,
I wouldn't go too crazy because then you lower copper and then he started having
connective tissue,
ligament,
tendon type issues.
So,
uh,
how much a day,
how many grams?
30 30 milligrams,
30 milligrams,
30 milligrams of a bio available.
Well,
form,
they're not all the same.
Don't go to a Walgreens or cvs and buy some cheap a forum.
The one you want to avoid is any sort of zinc gluconate or zinc oxide or zinc
sulfate.
The,
the absorption is very,
very low.
So you want the zinc,
Matthias [inaudible] or zinc citrate,
or there's other forms that a zinc,
a spar Tate,
um,
that are much more bioavailable.
Is there a certain brand,
and I said,
look for or that you recommend,
what's your brand?
Well,
you just branded CMA is,
is look on the label.
If it says Zma has a trademark of snack,
then you know,
it comes from,
from a,
it's the real deal that comes originally from me.
But it's,
do
you have your muscle farm?
Has It,
uh,
optimum has at twin lab?
Has It,
uh,
almost every company out there has it.
Do you have a zero is,
have you given a big bulk?
Oh,
thumbs up.
Like Victor Conte a big smiling face.
It doesn't,
no,
it has the double bicep.
Newman Newman's own pizza sauce.
You know,
it wasn't Newman's own popcorn.
He's got his face.
He should go for that.
You're online of
the [inaudible] approved,
um,
purchased.
Did you just get some damn look at you?
That's how,
that's how serious Brian is about as testosterone depletion.
That's the healthiest way to do it at zinc.
Well,
it,
you know,
you gotta look at the food sources there.
The reason I would recommend that you do it in supplements is by a 10 fold
factor.
The highest food source for zinc is oysters,
which is always people say,
hell yeah,
it's an aphrodisiac and all of this that,
so that's how a lot of people that don't,
some people do like oysters.
A lot of people do not.
How many oysters do you have to eat?
Two to run up to half a candidate.
I have,
I can't,
you know the little cams.
Jesus.
What the fuck?
Seton camp grass fed.
That's bullshit.
What do you get?
You're fresh.
You're going to go the bar.
You got to get it.
Yeah,
because if you get them in a can,
man,
you're getting all the shit that's in a cam,
you know,
like sodium and other preservatives.
And do you,
I guess they don't have the same issues that sardines do,
but canned sardines.
I,
uh,
I had my blood work done and it showed high levels of arsenic.
You were talking about a nutritionally dense foods earlier in the greens.
They're also loaded with cholesterol.
Take a supplement.
No oysters.
Oh,
I was like,
what the fuck are you doing?
Is a lot of restaurant chains as Christ oysters,
oysters.
Well,
so we're quoting the guys like Rob Wolf,
these Paleo guys.
I say cholesterol is not the problem.
That the problem is that people are,
first of all,
they're,
they're eating a bunch of shitty foods and that they're eating a bunch of grains
and pastas and gluten based products and that they're not getting fat from
animals that live off a healthy diet,
grasp at diets,
you know,
and that,
that a body that lives under a grass fed meat and grass fed milk is actually a
far healthier than cows that are eating grains and fucking up their entire body
so that they can have good marbling for the steak.
Do you,
uh,
advise fighters on,
what type of protein they take in their body?
And how do you do that?
Well,
they're different species at different times.
Sometimes you take a blend,
sometimes you take a,
you're talking about protein powders.
Are you talking about animals and sources?
Food.
I mean,
you,
you can protein powder all you want,
but at the end of the day there's this,
there's benefits to animal protein that you're not going to get from a way.
It's like wait powder.
Right,
right,
right.
What do you,
what do you advise,
don't make civic recommendations about what type of meat and and um,
in terms of food sources,
it doesn't have enough of an impact with compliance.
No,
I think it's important,
but if you had to advise and if someone,
uh,
what you want them to listen to you,
what would you say?
Like as far as like,
if you had to give,
if someone has the,
your ear,
they,
they give you their ear rather than 100% of were like,
listen,
please tell me everything to do.
What should I eat?
You mean in terms of optimal could fish and and optimal success?
Yeah.
Well what can we think about red meat that I advise people is cut it up into
small pieces.
You don't want these big chunks.
They're very difficult to digest and metabolize,
so a lot of guys really when they're starving to make weight,
they,
they'd be four or fight,
they want to eat red meat and I was advisor then cut it up into very small
pieces because you can really slow things down by trying to digest the big
chunks of meat and you should really chew the shit out of it to cut it up.
Really small pieces.
A lot of people don't like to chew their food.
They just like the wolf.
It have some sort of a lean,
lean hamburger,
good pasta and big chunks of meat all together.
Shut the fuck up,
bitch.
That's all of the garden.
You know?
You don't know.
You come here for one show,
I'm here for 300 of my hair.
That's olive garden.
Hundreds of times kid brings us no need to his favorite place.
He goes,
what have you done,
Mr Pie?
I hate to let the cat out of the bag,
but I've been with him to always talk before the show.
You talked,
you talked before the show Brian and they cheated.
Do you enjoy it yourself,
sir?
I'm sorry for sniffling in front of a microphone.
Ladies and gentlemen.
I like how you said yesterday you were like,
I never,
I don't,
this is rare as fucking traveled from Brazil.
I was hung over just two brouchers some Zma so Saturday night I had a little
absent with,
oh you did?
Yeah,
like they were legit stuff.
How was it?
Fucking ridiculous.
But he don't feel good the next day and then I flew so I caught a little wee bit
of a cold.
It's rare for me,
but it's not even a real cold.
It's just sniffles like,
uh,
I worked out,
I felt great.
I just got this little sniffle thing going on and I also drank some milk because
I don't give a fuck.
They say,
Joe,
did Milko make your body produced more phlegm?
Well then it should stop being delicious cause I'm just going to have to file.
I'm not just going to eat my cookies without milk.
Son of a bitch.
I know what the fuck I'm doing.
I'm 11 life.
God dammit.
Live a life.
If it's not fun,
don't do it.
Come on man.
This exactly.
But you know,
I don't want to get arrested for cookies and milk.
Have you seen these people that are getting arrested for,
for raw milk though?
I say nothing.
I got a contact high in here.
You got one the moment you walked in.
What do you,
what do you think about these people that are getting arrested for raw milk?
I mean to you and nutrition fan.
Are you just a fan of what works on performance athletes?
More about that.
That,
yeah.
So what do you eat yourself?
You just see it like a fucking wild animal.
Eat whatever you want.
Burgers.
But my wife cooks and she's the best in the world.
Is it Asian?
Oh,
here you go.
She Sam Simon,
you should go to the off guard with Brian.
Double Dare to Asian.
Double date.
Fucking freak.
Yeah.
Um,
so you,
uh,
do you train yourself?
Do you exercise?
You know,
I actually came here through the airport in a wheelchair,
a wheelchair.
I've got,
I've got some health issues that I'm dealing with now.
The bottom vertebrate brace slipped forward about 30% and I've got a pinched
nerve and it's really even difficult to walk.
Whoa.
I've been having some pretty serious health issues and,
and I go tomorrow for an MRI and then it's likely I'm going to have to have
surgery.
So most recently I've been really struggling with a lot of pain.
How did you a injury?
So I don't know.
I was a triple jumper and in high school and college and,
and maybe that was a part of it.
It could be genetic.
The doctor said,
uh,
I've had this for a long time.
I mean throughout the whole balco trial back from 2004 forward,
I would have difficulty even standing up.
Uh,
we went and made 15 appearances in,
in federal court.
So I've always had this problem.
But then I,
you know,
a while back,
it just,
um,
this bottom disc just slip or vertebrae,
excuse me,
slipped forward and started pinching the nerve.
And I've been really having problems.
I haven't been.
Um,
I would just think that,
you know,
working with all these guys and helping all these athletes,
you'd want to try some of that shit.
Oh yeah.
Barry bonds keeps coming back and bigger and bigger.
Like God damn,
very.
How's it feel?
Come on man.
What's it like being super bad?
I was the original Guinea pig for a lot of this stuff,
you know?
And what was it me,
you really felt a significant difference between how you felt?
Absolutely.
I mean for about seven years,
but then once,
once the 26 man Swat team with helicopters and assault rifles and flak jackets
came crashing through the door,
things changed.
Was It really 26 people would come to get you absolutely crazy.
I mean just,
they're back in the original building and it was just like a,
you would imagine a swat team going after bank.
Robert's Ge,
they pulled up and six,
seven black cars.
They filed out.
They all got their guns and gotten a row.
I could see him through the window and then they just crashed through the front
door screaming.
Anybody got any weapons?
All the guns being pointed at us.
And,
and uh,
three of us came over the window.
No,
it was my VP and the office manager.
Wow.
And it was a crazy,
crazy experience.
And so did you have any inkling that this was going to ever happen?
Oh,
I knew they were coming.
You knew there were come.
Absolutely.
They were going through my trash every single week for an entire year.
They were copying my mail on a daily basis.
The mail man told us,
um,
here's,
here's basically what happened.
A guy across the freeway from Balco,
uh,
called up and said,
you guys need to come get your trash out of my trash band because,
uh,
you know,
I'm going to call the police.
So we went over there and found our garbage and brought it back over and have
the big black garbage bag and inside all the little white garbage bags
throughout the whole 7,000 square foot lab facility.
Uh,
you could see that they'd been going through these.
And then,
uh,
so we got a call a couple of weeks later and he said,
listen,
I told you to get this stuff out of here.
So,
uh,
we went back over there and got it again.
So I decided,
you know what,
let's just call the police ourselves.
So we called the Burlingame police department that came out,
we filed a police report.
They went over and,
uh,
Jeff Nowviskie was,
was illegally dumping the trash while eating a whatever the penal code is for
using somebody else's dumpster and a,
so they ended up writing an article about this in the Berlin game boutique and
village or the little rag newspaper there in Burlingame.
And apparently they delivered it to Novitsky his door and he realized that we
were onto him.
So shortly thereafter he became the swat team.
They thought we were going to cover up all the evidence and destroy things.
They needed to act quickly.
So they,
they hustled and put together the Swat team and there was customs and you know,
narcotics,
IRS and you know,
many different agencies.
How stressful was that for you?
Well,
it was crazy.
I mean,
I,
it was surreal.
I would see a swat team,
well not,
I,
you probably don't remember this,
but they had it on CNN.
It was all staged.
And how I know this is the,
soon as they came after us inside the building with the guns and they marched us
to the front door,
we sat in the lobby and I could look right out the front door.
And next thing you know,
here comes the,
uh,
the ABC,
the NBC,
the CBS,
uh,
trucks and up go the satellite dishes and like,
well,
Bam,
I don't understand.
I within a minute's time,
here's all the news.
And in fact,
ultimately I was able to get one of the people at NBC through a reporter that I
knew who had taken a picture of the helicopter.
And as it turned out,
they,
you know,
said in the these legal documents that they didn't have a helicopter there,
but,
but it was hovering so close to the front door that the louvers over the window
actually cracked from the vibration.
And,
and I managed to get the,
uh,
a picture of,
of the helicopter and get the number off of it and trace it over the,
the bay there to Hayward.
And it was a company called helling that we went to their website and they did
all sorts of governmental work,
including the transport of nine us presidents.
So clearly it was them.
They just misrepresented this what we're really happened,
uh,
that day.
So what I'm trying to say is I found out that they contacted these news casters,
this is all illegal by the way.
They contacted these newscasters and said,
parked down the street with your vans and we're going to raid this place,
this balco laboratories,
and we don't want you to film the actual raid,
but we want you to get the aftermath.
So,
so it was all shades for television.
I mean,
this was,
think about this.
I believe that this was in part a diversion of distraction from the war in Iraq.
I mean,
Whoa,
all of a sudden I became the Saddam Hussein of sport.
I was this bad guy.
President Bush was talking about this in the state of the Union address.
John Ashcroft,
the u s attorney general is,
is announcing my indictment on the steps of the White House.
Um,
listen,
I pled guilty to,
uh,
I don't know if he had to know about units of a and the federal guidelines,
but at that particular time,
a 10 CC bottle is one unit of any type of steroid.
50 pills of any type of steroid was one unit.
Uh,
I pled to 25 units.
Understand that that's less than an ounce of marijuana.
So why would you bring all this firepower,
all these helicopters,
all this news media,
the whole thing was stage 25 units.
Will that fit in a bag?
Well,
it would be 25 bottles of steroids that would have 50 tablets or it would be 25,
a 10 cc bottles so easily.
That's the first little amount.
Folks who can't wrap their head around it,
it would go in a lunchbox.
It would go in a lunchbox.
The total value of everything that they found was less than $1,500.
So they came in with 26 dudes in swat gear for
got the salt rifles.
But Penn does.
Yeah,
so you get what I'm saying?
They knew that they had the names,
they knew that it was Barry bonds and Marion Jones.
Why do they care so much?
What is the,
what is the motivation behind chase the athletes about trophy hunting from day
number one because you have,
you know,
there were 10 baseball players.
Of those 10 I've got every single one of the grand jury testimonies.
They basically said the exact same thing as Barry bonds.
He was the only one,
I believe it's clearly selective prosecution.
He was the only one that was indicted.
So it was all about making an example because he's a famous guy because he's
famous and he will bring the most headlines
and he was the guy who was knocking in the most home runs.
So go after him and they didn't have enough money to prosecute everybody.
Is that what it was?
State's budget's didn't have enough money to prosecute all the athletes or did
they have some sort of a deal with baseball?
I count.
Does that work?
Well,
you hear all sorts of numbers,
you know,
55 60 and beyond.
Even before they,
they took Barry bonds and you know,
aside from balco with his own trial on,
on perjury,
I,
they probably spent $100 million.
It's hard to understand,
you know,
why they,
they look,
think about this aspect.
Novitsky Hey,
let me tell you how balco really started.
Okay.
There's no,
no one's heard this story back in,
in 1992
I was working with track athletes including Greg to false.
The guy that I told you that,
uh,
tested positive and they covered up his drug test.
And I was at the,
uh,
Bruce Jenner classic in San Jose at San Jose City College.
And I was working with a number of athletes that,
uh,
went to the college of San Mateo,
which is where no neato still does this track training.
And Greg's coach,
we won't name him for now,
was there and I saw him,
he was about 57 at the time.
Now he's probably 70 years old,
but he's still coaches up there.
And I walked up to the bend of the,
the,
uh,
200 meters.
They were getting ready to start the race.
And all of a sudden I realized that one of the young girl,
she was 19 at the time,
she became a national javelin champion,
was standing there with,
uh,
with his coach and I,
and all of a sudden she started scratching his arm and he started rubbing her.
And you could see the,
there was a little something going on there,
sex up.
The coach was doing the you son of a,
so I went back to Greg.
I said,
Greg G,
do you know that your coach is doing the student?
And he said,
dude,
you don't know the half of it.
We go to these meets and you know,
we can't find them.
And then we stumbled our way.
You know,
we look all over the stadium and by the time we get out to his van,
he comes stumbling out,
you know,
buckling up his pants and stuff.
And so this had been going on for a long time.
While he told this person that I knew now just so happened that his boss was a
stockholder in balco.
He was afraid he was going to lose his job.
He was at San Francisco fireman in a day and he coached part time from that day
on.
That guy hated my guts every single time my name came up.
It was bad things to say.
Well,
his younger brother is the coach of the high school where Greg's kids went.
That's right over the freeway from,
from Balco.
His best friend is Jeff Novitsky.
So this is like a really bad grade.
Got Mad at me.
I have to follow it because when he found out I was given designers start to two
athletes,
he told his coach who told his brother,
who told him to [inaudible] and if [inaudible] knew that was Barry bonds and all
these elite athletes.
So for one year he came every single Monday night across the freeway live.
Ray still lives right over the freeway and with through my trash until he found
enough evidence to go to the prosecutor,
Jeff Ned row and get $300 to buy a membership to the world's gym right next door
to balco.
There were Barry bonds was trained by Greg Anderson.
And uh,
so all I'm saying is it was,
this is,
this is really how it started
and the rest is history as they sow trophy hunting.
So essentially prosecutors that wanted a big name case to make their careers.
And so they went after guys like Barry Bonds didn't go off to Mark McGuire that
much though,
Huh?
Well,
that was earlier.
Yeah.
That was five years earlier than this.
This was in 2003.
But when he came out and we wanted to get that coaching job,
he had a sort of admit that he took steroids,
right?
Yeah,
he did.
But everybody was like,
yeah,
it's okay.
You're a white guy,
Barry bonds guys.
Well,
it is what it is in all of this.
That's the,
the the bottom line.
When I,
when I say an earlier,
I said what you had described was a mess.
This is a mess in my opinion.
What you have is one group of cheaters,
the athletes and those helping them being chased by another group of cheaters,
the law enforcement and anti-doping,
and they cheat equally as much if not more so than the athlete.
The anti-doping people cheat other than what you said before,
where they,
they get rid of some positive tests.
How the,
that was a while ago,
right?
There was all,
it's absolute propaganda by the government as well as the anti-doping really.
W let me give you an example.
Okay.
Kelly White,
the one that I told you tested positive for Modafinil.
The very first one.
Yes.
When they came to her,
they said,
and this is what they do and why I'm so grateful that I never considered
cooperating with them in any way,
shape or form.
But they came to her and they said,
listen,
you're gonna get a two year ban,
will reinstate you in one year if you cooperate.
Here's what we want you to do.
They wrote a script and they had her go around all over New York,
Copenhagen,
London,
all these different places and tell lies that they knew were absolute lies.
In other words,
she'd used drugs for 2000,
2001,
2000,
two,
2003.
I,
they got all the,
the drug calendars they had them.
But the story was I went to this big bad wolf victor,
and he told me that it was vitamins,
but two weeks later he called and told me that it was the real stuff.
And then I didn't take it again all the way until 2003 and then from March until
I became the double world champion.
Then I took him again.
She lied to the grand jury.
It said she,
she didn't inject EPO.
She committed perjury.
They never went after her at all while proof that she committed.
Absolutely.
She's on,
she's been with the black,
uh,
Guy,
James Brown on Hbo.
Real sports.
Later he says,
and I've got this video.
Did you use EPO?
Yes,
I did.
Well,
did you inject it?
Yes.
Where did you inject it?
On my stomach.
Was it painful?
Yes,
it was.
Well,
to the grand jury,
she said,
oh no,
I didn't use it.
They gave it to me,
but I flushed it down the toilet.
Whoa.
So she's absolutely lied,
committed perjury,
Sbo.
I mean,
I've got the video and the,
and the,
the grand jury transcript,
but here's,
here's how they play.
Then they came back to her and they said,
okay,
well you've done all these things.
You've testified against all these people.
You've said everything that we want you to say.
And she said,
great,
now reinstate me and let me get back on the track.
And I said,
oh,
well by the way,
we forgot to tell you,
Kelly,
you got to go to the IWF in every single penny.
You know that $350,000 that you made,
pay it all back to them and maybe they'll let you back.
You have to pay back everything you've ever earned as a track and field athlete.
Well,
they didn't tell her that upfront.
This is the kind of stuff that they do to,
to anyone and everyone that does cooperate with them.
At the end of the day.
Let's look at this now.
Let's take it a step forward with Floyd Landis.
Remember when there was going to be the the whistle blower that they had the $30
million and he was going to get a certain percentage of that 10% or $3 million
and he filed a federal claim and he was cooperating with them and then at the
end of the day and now they charging him,
they're charging him with what?
What a fraud.
He raised $2 million by selling a book telling people he was clean when he knew
he was dirty.
Wow.
So all I'm saying is they,
they,
they delete stuff in reports.
They say things that people,
me personally,
they,
they said that I said things the day of the raid that I never said and the
things that I did say,
they deleted it from the report.
Now understand,
I filed a declaration under penalty of perjury with the federal courts saying
that these guys lied in every single thing they said in this memorandum of
interview.
And all of this is missing from this memorandum of activity.
Will,
you don't see them coming after me for perjury?
What hap complicated.
It's getting a little convoluted here.
Well,
fortunately I see what you're saying and I see that you're saying that they're
corrupt and that class,
because both sides are cheating to win both sides of cheating to when I see what
you're saying,
prosecutors,
a cheating,
and that's often the case that people complained about all sorts of situations
where people get busted for something that the cops want to,
they want to pin them with the crime.
So they will sometimes manufacturer evidence and they will sometimes manipulate
the law.
There was some times and then what it takes to get the bad guy,
but the bad guy here it's,
it gets a little bit,
you know,
it's like who's the bad guy?
Is the bad guy,
the guy who took steroids so he could hit the ball better or is the bad guy,
the guy that spent hundreds of millions of dollars tax payer's money that could
have been spent on schools that could have been spent on health care,
lunch,
electricity,
different things,
all sorts of caught hire more cops.
Instead they spend it going after a fucking baseball player.
It's a,
we have a wacky set of priorities.
It's all that over that witch hunt shit.
Is that over or are they still doing that with guys?
Uh,
it's still going on.
Didn't mark wouldn't,
no.
Uh,
didn't,
um,
Roger Clemens just get off the whole thing and now he's going to start playing
baseball again
at 50.
Yeah.
That brings up something.
I don't know that I can,
yeah,
I don't think he will,
but there is talk about it.
I know he pitched,
you mean like a minor league?
They're in Texas.
Yeah.
Um,
my understanding is that in a couple weeks,
this is,
I've been told it's 99% sure that it's going to happen.
They're supposed to be in an event at Ucla,
uh,
an open
town hall type setting.
Uh,
there,
uh,
I was supposed to be on showtime with,
a panel of experts,
myself included and five or six other guys that,
that,
uh,
and the question is,
um,
baseball steroid era,
uh,
Barry bonds,
the greatest hitter of his generation.
Roger Clemens,
the greatest picture of his generation.
Do they belong in the in Baseball Hall of fame?
Who's going to be an interesting
debate?
That is an interesting debate.
Um,
Carl Lewis,
Ben Johnson tested positive and lost his gold medal because he tested positive
but didn't call Louis test positive that Olympics as well
earlier did.
Yes.
So at the trials,
this all came out in 1988 well,
let,
let's,
let me put that in context of the statistics.
They had a hundred positive tests.
The United States Olympic Committee,
and listen back in 1988 50 of those were covered up those 50 athletes.
They won 19 Olympic medals.
The ones that were covered up and Carl is one of those.
Oh my God.
No.
How do they do that?
How do they decide who was covered up and who doesn't?
Well,
library,
no.
What happened was that they were doing a task and the this committee and all the
minutes or it came out,
this was published in 2009 in the Orange County register and they basically
said,
well listen,
our whole team will,
you know,
a lot of it will not be going to the Olympics if we come out with this.
So let's just say that this particular testing was experimental and let's take
the B sample and poured down the drain.
Whoa.
Because it was just too costly for the teams as far as records are concerned.
As far as what would rather tell him going possible.
Present the United States,
that is the group where they had,
they had a hundred positives,
50 were covered up these and selectively that he was one of those,
those 50
there was always a deal with a that Olympics that there was corruption that
Olympics because of Roy Jones loss in the finals against the Korean fighter,
which was one of the worst shitty decisions in boxing history or Roy Jones lit
this kid up like a Christmas tree and at the end of it they gave the decision to
the Korean and everybody weighed us wine.
Why?
I mean it was one of the most read in Korea.
It was one of the most ridiculous shows of corruption ever.
So let me suggest that when you can watch this recent 9.79 asterik show,
because they interview all the eight guys that were in the race.
But the most interesting part is a friend of Carl Lewis's and they even
interviewed as manager Joe Douglas got into the actual drug testing room where
Ben Johnson was.
And Charlie had told me this as well,
listen,
the,
this is a,
was a set up here and he was drinking beer to show he could urinate.
And they actually showed pictures on this show of this guy sitting next to Ben
Johnson and the beer.
And he wouldn't go on camera,
but at the end and turn it always said that it was sabotage,
that somebody spiked his,
his beer with us,
the nozzle,
all a winstrol tablet.
And uh,
when they asked the guy to go on the record,
he said,
no,
but he made a statement and they said,
well,
did you,
you know,
uh,
sabotage Ben Johnson and put a,
a winstrol tablet in his beer?
And he said,
maybe I did and maybe I didn't.
Wait a minute.
So Ben Johnson wasn't on steroids when he competed in the Olympic Games.
He was clearly on,
because it all
came out in the Dublin inquiry later when when they brought in all the athletes
and his team
a point where he was in undetectable levels for tests,
they just tapered oftentime cause there was no out of competition testing.
So they'd done this many,
many times and they just would go off three weeks out knowing that it would take
that long to clear.
They'd done it many world championships and other meats before and that
particular competition,
he came up positive.
It didn't he come up really positive too,
like well look,
it would've been a huge mistake.
Yes.
Yeah,
it was a little obvious.
Wow,
that's amazing.
So he was sabotaged.
So it's like everybody knew don't cue the beach,
whatever music.
Everybody knew that it was a,
well this is this what the guy was taking this story.
Hi,
first of all,
how did that guy get in there?
Yeah,
that's the question.
And he's Carl Lewis,
his friend,
and Joe Douglas said,
we managed to do what it took to get the credentials to get the guy in there.
So this is always going to be two people who cheat.
There's always going to be weirdness.
What'd you think about like a Margarita with the loaded gloves?
Well,
that was really bad.
That was the one that,
do you remember the Billy resto days?
Panama Lewis and Gusto?
The hold,
they took the hide out of a kid's gloves or think Billy custody.
Not Billy Costello,
I forgot the kid's name,
but uh,
it went blind.
Went blind,
lost part of his vision.
Couldn't box again.
That's his full intention.
Yeah,
it's a,
there's always been cheating,
man.
So He's been cheating people just winning.
It's so fucking awesome.
How do you keep guys from cheating now if you're,
if you're working with all these athletes and you have this past,
I mean obviously the threat of going back to jail,
I'm sure shit isn't enticing to you,
but how do you keep athletes on the straight now?
The only way that's going to happen is if the people that make the majority of
the money from sport,
whether that be baseball,
football,
UFC,
Olympics,
whoever it is,
when they develop a genuine interest,
then they can implement a reasonably effective testing program.
While you're not relies on state athletic commissions,
you know,
it's uh,
it's over.
It's,
it could be said that it's overstepping their boundaries if they incorporate
their own testing.
It's almost like saying you don't know what you're doing in Nevada state
athletic commission.
We're going to do our own shit.
Cause that,
is that a religion?
I'm an argument or,
no,
I mean it seems like if you want the sanctioning of an athletic commission,
the idea is that they get paid to do that.
They get paid to test people.
So if you come in and you know,
you say,
look,
we're going to do your job because you suck at it like that,
that could,
that could ruffle feathers.
No,
of course.
But it should be done anyways that we were saying you,
you need a certain standardization,
but those athletic commissions are not providing that.
Absolutely not.
The level of testing they provide is an absolute joke.
So they provide a level of testing that is through urine only,
correct?
That's correct.
And it needs to be through blood and needs to be through both.
Both blood and like EPO is urine.
They don't do EPO.
Okay.
The carbon isotope ratio for synthetic testosterone,
that's a urine test.
I wrote a,
I'd rather read a defense.
Someone was saying,
well,
boxers,
a EPO is not really a drug that concerns us because boxers don't use it.
No.
I was like,
what am I,
let me say this.
If I had to pick a single drug,
that would be the most powerful performance enhancer.
It's EPO.
Yeah.
How could they possibly say that?
I read that and I was like,
that is the most ridiculous.
Robert Voi and David Watson,
this was at a hearing with Keith Kaiser,
the Nevada State Athletic Commission.
They got up and then there was a headline that said,
uh,
you know,
you're on testing,
knock kales blood testing.
They were saying,
you don't need to.
Why do you need to do this test?
Why do you need to test for EPO?
Nobody's using EPO,
but that's an endurance.
I mean,
how could anybody say that?
It's an endurance enhancer and a massive endurance in heads in a word.
I don't care who you are.
Uh,
Dwayne chambers described it best one time when he said it turns you into a
machine.
How many MMA fighters do you think are on EPL?
Well,
often total of all performance announcing drugs,
it's in the neighborhood of 50% maybe 20% so 20% capacity would be at APL.
So when you see people with ridiculous cardio and they can go five rounds at
100% clip,
you get suspicious.
It's fair,
very easy to get this stuff and use this stuff.
And there's no test for it.
In the blue curve.
There is a test for it.
But I'm saying in the,
in Nevada,
Nevada,
California doesn't do it in New York,
doesn't do a state commissions,
do not do it.
They only test for what they test for testosterone versus epitestosterone
ratios.
They test for things that are,
it's minimal testing,
right.
And,
and the panel of anabolic steroids.
So you get that panel of about 30 to 35 steroids plus the t ratio is included.
Long story short,
I used to buy those tests from quest diagnostic,
the exact company that does the Nevada state athletic commission testing for $80
so what would a blood test?
A blood in urine,
the the correct type of testing costs.
How much difference are we talking about?
Pos or $400 test?
Growth Hormone is a $400 test.
Okay,
so those are two different tests.
Let's round it off.
Let's call it $1,000 so you're dealing with 11 fighters,
22 five two $22,000 so $22,000 savings.
Yeah.
How much are they getting paid for those events though?
It seems like they're probably getting a lot of money for those events.
They can't talk about $22,000 for proper testing.
Do you think they have pressure?
Do you think that it's like the casinos scholars?
No need to get crazy.
You're testing a little about the potential for financial loss and is it all
about the,
the image?
Like it looks like they're testing,
but meanwhile they're,
they're,
they're just making it so
that they know,
they tell you how to cheat because they say,
listen,
come in here and you're good.
Yeah.
So you're like,
okay,
yes.
Wow.
What can be done?
What can we do,
uh,
implement reasonably effective testing and that you don't have to go crazy.
What do they do if they find out when they implement recently effective Tesla,
everybody's on.
And then when everybody gets off the performance socks and it becomes like women
trying to chase those Olympics,
uh,
metals at the Russians made when they were hopped up on Dick Sauce.
Okay.
I think that answer has been provided,
um,
by baseball.
Look at the home run totals.
Right.
But they only did it,
test it twice.
He said it tested twice.
And that's a very small amount of,
when I say reasonable,
that's not reasonable.
The point is beef,
they had no testing.
Uh,
they started in 2004.
So back in the day,
there was no testing,
which meant that's like back in the flow,
Joe Days,
you do whatever you want as much as you want at any time.
And nobody's paying attention.
Flo Jo died,
right?
Yes.
She's,
she dies a result of performance enhancing drugs.
My opinion,
I think there's a connection.
What did she die of?
Listen,
I've said this before and,
and uh,
uh,
I will,
I've been told that there were three positive drug tests that were covered up at
the Olympic Games and you have to look at,
at the highly suspicious nature of what happened with Flo Jo.
She was 27 years old at the height of her economic earning potential.
She came home from the Olympic Games and retired.
Does that make sense?
No.
Okay.
No it doesn't.
So what do you think was wrong?
Well,
sorry.
I've been told that there were three positive drug tests and that she was one of
them.
Now you call it a rumor,
call it what you want,
but,
but I believe that,
uh,
you know,
I was told three specific names of all gold medalist.
So they essentially told her it's time to wrap it up because we know you're
cheating.
Well,
she was an interesting case too because she was a,
I wouldn't,
I wouldn't say a mediocre runner,
but she was nowhere near the level that she was at her prime just a couple of
years previous to that,
in the 84 Olympics,
her hundred meter best was 10 96 and 200 meter was 2196 four years later in
[inaudible] 88 Adh rent 2134,
so 96 to 34,
five,
six meters faster.
And from 10 96 to 10 49 which is four or five meters faster,
she says grace,
that's fast.
Imagine if you're running and she's five meters ahead of you.
Many people said that they sold her all kinds of drugs.
Uh,
a 400 meter runner from,
I believe he was from Seattle.
Darryl Robinson,
you know,
came forward on the today show and said that,
listen,
I sold her all kinds of drugs.
So that was a sad story.
27 years old.
How old was she when she died?
38 or nine.
That's a sad story.
Now.
Uh,
Lance Armstrong,
they're going to get this car it seems like now.
What are some today?
Yeah,
like Nike dropped him today and he read,
he stepped down from his position with live strong.
Yeah.
So it seems like the walls are closing in on him now.
This is a,
that's two things to happen in one day like that it seems like it's almost over.
But they,
they have like 500 negative tests from this guy.
Some say that's an inflated number.
It was closer.
He claims five to 600.
Literally it's 20.
So what does that tell you?
Say It's,
say it's 250,
let's,
let's cut his number and has,
did it right.
What does that tell you about the effectiveness of the testing?
Says it's shit,
especially with the blood doping,
right?
Because they can't really tell that you did that.
How did they tell that you,
you took your blood and froze it and then stuck it back in your body?
How are they there?
Some,
they can look at a percentage,
uh,
of,
of young,
middle aged and older red blood cells.
And if that percentage is outside,
then have they ever brought a case and made it stick?
It's very tough because that's subjective a test,
but here,
here's you know,
just this is a rumor that I heard but it makes a lot of sense.
Um,
I th this is what I believe they do is during each and every stage they wait
until they know the testing window is over and then they reinfuse their,
their red blood cells,
they come back at the end of the stage,
they extract those red blood cells.
So if they get tested in the morning,
they're going to be within the normal range.
They also take testosterone either by cream gel or patch,
which as I talked about with baseball players,
it goes up and goes down.
So by that time in the morning when you would be tested,
you,
it'd be within the normal t ratio.
The joke that was going around was that with Floyd Landis that the,
he had horrible stage 16 came in that night and got drunk and forgot to take the
patch off.
Tested positive 11 to one is t ratio in the morning.
Really.
Whether that's true or not,
I don't know.
But what I'm saying is they're now using this term right under the testers
noses,
meaning they're doing this on a daily basis.
And did Lance Armstrong,
Lance Armstrong get away with it for so long because he was the poster boy
because he was the golden child.
Well,
they supposedly now or accusing the cycling union,
um,
of helping cover up a positive drug test where he,
he gave $100,000 to them and the next thing you know,
they had a 60 to $70,000 a piece of equipment that they were using in the
laboratory.
Um,
do I think it's possible?
I do,
you know,
will that ever get to a court of law with a,
with a beyond a reasonable doubt standard?
I don't know,
but were,
there are a lot of people in on it.
Of course.
That's my opinion there.
This just didn't happen.
You know,
many people knew about this,
that were involved in the business.
It was good for business.
Uh,
and a lot of people were making a lot of money and I think a lot of people were
looking the other way.
This is such a fascinating subject.
I'm,
I'm so obsessed with the idea of this constant desire to like,
especially in track and field,
to just shave tenths of a second in seconds off of your time and you know it.
So let's talk about that for just a second.
Cause I wrote an article about this in the New York Daily News back starting and
it was right before the Beijing Olympics in 2008.
And this was when it first came to my attention and I,
my opinion is that memo,
the same guy that was in the balco case,
Novitsky got no consequence and he's still out there.
But I s I watched the women's a hundred meter final at the Jamaican trials and
Veronica Campbell was an Olympic gold medalist and a world champion.
And I mean really just one of the best sprinters we expected to win both events
at the trials.
She ran a very fast 10 88 and came in fourth.
Didn't even make the team,
and the hundred meters said,
who are these people,
these other girls?
Where are they coming from?
Well,
let's go back and look at Shellyann Frazier,
who's won the gold medal in London and won the gold medal in Beijing.
And if you go back and look at the Times that she ran in 2007 a year before the
Beijing Olympics,
she ran a 1135 she showed up at Beijing rent 10 78 that's five meters faster.
Now here's my experience with Kelly White.
I helped her.
She obviously use drugs and she became a double world champion.
Her lifetime PR was 1119 I gave her very sophisticated drug regimen.
She rent 10 10 85 so she went from 1119 to 10 85 this Jamaican girl went from
1135 to 10 78 how do you improve five meters in one year?
So what happened at the Olympics?
They want gold,
silver,
bronze,
and the 100 meter of this very small country wins all three metals in the
hundred meters.
But let's fast forward.
What just happened in London is from the exact same coach Glen Mills.
They're on this very small island and the 200 meter they went gold,
silver and bronze,
all three places,
not just from the same,
same.
There's two track clubs,
MVP and racers,
track club,
which is you saying bolts to a team.
They won the gold,
silver and bronze in the hundred meters.
They won gold and silver,
so they won five out of the six gold medals in this.
What are they the same coach?
What are they doing?
Probably a lot of stuff and to just doing my opinion,
tapering off before the Olympics and still keeping the effects because they
don't go there during the off season that I described that October through
January period I believe it's just open season greenlight use and do whatever
you want.
What's going to happen if they ever do that?
How much are Tom's going to drop?
Significantly significant.
I mean real significant
track and field.
It's just completely infested.
Absolutely.
And then here,
here's what comes next.
Then the coach says,
not only are my guys so good if I could have had five guys on the team,
we would have won the first five places and sure enough in the,
in the remainder of the season they had about five more meets after the Olympics
in London to more guidance from the all training partners ran times faster than
everybody else in the world.
So the top five times and the 200 meters in the world are all from the same code
coach.
You going to get a Jamaican hitman knocking on your door,
Vic dip conte want to talk to you man,
you got a problem with Jamaicans running fast.
It's the mountain yams.
Yeah.
Mon Yams are the shit and Jakks too,
right?
Brian Acme me.
Acme.
It's supposed to be good.
Victus a shitstorm you stirred up for sure.
And uh,
I believe you.
I believe you're telling the truth and it's a fascinating subject to me.
It seems like that it's a big charade.
Especially it seems like with track and field.
I mean not,
that just seems really kind of like a crazy game mean.
It's just everybody's doing it and so you have to do it in order to be the best
to the times with the women athletes.
That's the most telling.
That's crazy that they can even come close to those because those were more just
ball and they were just taking crazy roids.
They can't do that anymore.
They have to be careful now.
Wow.
Fascinating.
Fascinating Shit.
Well listen,
thank you very much for your time.
I really appreciate it.
People want to get ahold of you on Twitter.
You could find victor on Twitter under Victor Con C.
O.
N.
T.
E.
I'm saying it right.
Conti,
Conti.
Victor Conte on Twitter and a separate website that they can go to to read
anything.
The snack.com s and a c.com.
What does that stand for?
Scientific nutrition for advanced conditioning.
Okay,
and that's your why.
Why conditioning with a k?
No,
it's SNAC.
Oh,
it's nice snack like sna,
sna.
See,
with no kid myself,
I wanted it to be stupid and wanted to be like comedy with a k,
like the comedy writing comedy corner cake cake.
How many corner they do that in my world,
my world is more silly than your world.
My world,
if they tested positive for marijuana,
we would lose half the great comics of the world.
More than than half.
More than them.
Yeah.
We have a performance enhancing drugs too.
They're just more subtle.
You're a very fun and smart guy and I really joined BM here with thank you sir.
Thank you for coming on.
It was a good,
good conversation.
It that's very enlightening.
I really enjoyed it.
Thank you for being so forthcoming and uh,
I think a lot of people got a lot of information out there.
Letting light enlightened a lot of peoples to how things really work behind the
scenes,
especially in track and field.
An area that I had never had any knowledge about whatsoever.
And the whole Bosco story.
It's a fascinating story and I'm glad you're on the straight and narrow,
sir.
And you're partying with Tommy John,
Tommy Chong rather in the joint and the joint playing pool.
Who the fuck fucking ice hockey and shit in the joint kept massages getting
blown by your fucking CEO.
How crazy is that?
Hot Chicks.
It's hookers.
Eat Sushi every night.
You can't say,
can you say what prison it was the Taft prison.
Go say that 20 miles east of Bakersfield.
And by the way,
law enforcement officers,
please don't arrest these ladies.
What's wrong with a little extra money on the side?
Stop Hating.
Everybody needs to fucking relaxed in this country.
We've got a bunch of grown adults telling other grown adults what they can and
can't do.
And some of them,
they stick them in jails and then the other grown adults blown for money.
And I have a problem with that.
Victor,
you got a problem with that?
No,
no,
no ways.
Gentlemen.
There will be no podcast tomorrow folks.
And they will be none next week either.
Cause next week,
uh,
I got to go out of town.
Um,
but uh,
we'll be back.
We'll back strong.
We got a lot of people coming up next month.
One of them is,
uh,
doctor Peter Duesberg who is the biologist from the University of California,
Berkeley and he doesn't believe that HIV causes AIDS.
And this is going to get a really weird,
we should bring aids blended into that
data.
I don't know.
I,
we have to,
I know this is a very,
this is another case where I'm too stupid to really have this conversation with
this guy,
so I'm going to have him on and then I am sure there will be people that want to
provide a rebuttal.
I will find someone who is actually scientifically able to break down what was
wrong with mom.
Mr Duesberg said,
and I will allow the two of them if Mr Duisburg wants to come back to do it
together.
It's so fascinating.
I'm sorry.
Ah,
I don't know if doctor Jerkin hang in that you've got to have a,
like a biologist.
You have to have somebody who understands retroviruses.
I just made a bunch of noises with my mouth.
I don't even know what they mean.
That's the problem.
I don't know what the fuck are retro viruses.
It's like older.
It's like you buy it and use store.
Listen folks and blog and podcast is over.
We want to thank you very much for just,
just for being bad.
Motherfuckers,
ladies and gentleman,
if you want to come see us,
uh,
Minneapolis is sold out,
but uh,
San Francisco people,
we will be at the Nob Hill Masonic Center.
1102.
That is November 2nd and November 3rd.
We you doing that weekend?
Whatever you want me to want to come up there.
All right,
so it'd be Brian Red Band,
Greg Fitzsimmons,
who's a fucking bonafide national headliner.
Ladies and gentlemen.
He will also be on the show and me,
uh,
that's at the Nob Hill Masonic Center in San Francisco.
All the information is available.
I think live nation is doing that.
Um,
all of it is online and yeah,
and also the Seattle where at the Moore Theater.
The next night.
Same lineup.
Um,
and that is uh,
the Moore Theater in Seattle.
Stopped by that podcast studio up there.
Yeah.
We'll give you the chicken and do a guest set to little chicken was good last
time we were there.
He is he still doing it?
I don't know.
He'll fucking dust off the act.
Come get right back in there.
You fucking silly bitch.
Um,
so,
uh,
thanks to everybody for listening to the program,
thanks to on it for sponsoring show,
go to o n n I t and use the code name Rogan and you will save yourself 10% off
any an all supplements.
We also,
besides just the suburbs,
we carry kettle bells,
battle ropes,
and now blenders,
when you buy a new blender,
the BLENDTEC blender,
which is excellent for making the vegetable smoothies and also bulletproof
coffee,
which by the way,
I'm drinking today ladies,
a gentleman named mark.
Are you rolling?
Yeah,
ms.
Mix butter and everything.
It's fucking delicious though.
Those Blendtec blenders are available at on it and we sell them far cheaper than
anybody else does if they're smart because the manufacturer for retail,
I mean I'm sure it may,
I don't know what everybody is selling it for,
but I can tell you what the manufacturer retail is and it is 650 bucks and we
sell it for like 450.
I'll tell you right now,
in one moment I'm trying to pull up the numbers.
What amazing value.
Um,
I can't find them the number and for doing a nice house tonight.
Yes,
a four.
We sell them for 454 bucks.
The manufactured retail,
uh,
suggested retail is six 59,
so it's actually less than 200 bucks last and we give you a free container of
hemp force with that.
Um,
the supplements are all available with a 30 pill.
The first 30 pill,
100% money back guarantee.
Try Them.
You don't like it?
It's all based on science.
There's the science is all at [inaudible] dot com.
It's all stuff that there's no way we'd be selling if we didn't a hundred
percent believe in it.
The Shrimp Tech Board,
I take lager motherfucker,
take it for every work out.
It's all cordyceps mushrooms and p 12.
It's all stuff that's been shown to enhance endurance and the,
the science and all the information as again is available at [inaudible] dot
com.
All right.
You fucking freaks.
I will lose it.
We're taking a whole week off.
I hope you're going to be okay.
But we're going to do an icehouse chronicles tonight.
Um,
so you can check that out,
but you can only check that out.
Death Squad on iTunes.
All right,
so go there,
subscribe,
and maybe Kevin Pereira.
We'll do another podcast soon.
And we have one Monday at noon.
Oh,
snap son Kevin prayer,
one of the funniest fucking guys on the planet.
One of the coolest as well,
who's also the former host of the attack of the show on g four.
And now he's doing podcasts on desk squad network.
So go subscribe you fucking freaks.
And uh,
I will be back next week.
I'm going hunting with Brian Coun.
We're going to go on the fucking raft in Montana and shit's gonna get real.
I'm going to come back with some stories.
I need to do some things to make some stories.
I can't keep talking about mushrooms.
All right.
I gotta go,
bye.
See you soon.
Love the fucking shit out of you.
Yeah,
people
okay.